of anarchy is unboundedfor unrestricted costfunctions. Ontheotherhand,itturnsouttobepossibletoofferboundsinthe casewherecostfunctionsarerestrictedtoaparticularset . First,wemustdefine C theso-calledPigoubound: r c(r) α( ) = sup sup · . C x c(x)+(r x)c(r) c∈Cx,µ≥0 · − When α( ) evaluates to 0, we define it to be 1. We can now state a surprisingly C 0 strongresult. Theorem6.4.12 Thepriceofanarchyofaselfishroutingproblemwhosecostfunctionsaretakenfromtheset isnevermorethanα( ). C C Observe that Theorem 6.4.12 makes a very broad statement, bounding a selfishroutingproblem’spriceofanarchyregardlessofnetworkstructureandforany givenfamilyofcostfunctions. Becauseαappearsdifficulttoevaluate,onemight find it hard to get excited about this result. However, α can be evaluated for a varietyofinterestingsets ofcostfunctions. Forexample,when isthesetoflinC ear functions ax +b with a,b 0, α( ) = 4/3. Indeed, α( ) takes the same ≥ C C value when is the set of all convexfunctions. This means that the bound from C Theorem6.4.12istightforthissetoffunctions: Pigou’slinearexamplefromFigure6.14(left)usesonlyconvexcostfunctionsandwehavealreadyshownthatthis problem has a price of anarchy of precisely 4/3. The linear version of Pigou’s examplethusservesasaworstcaseforthepriceofanarchyamongallselfishroutingproblemswithconvexcostfunctions. Becausethepriceofanarchyisrelatively closeto1fornetworkswithconvexedgecosts,thisresultindicatesthatcentralized controloftrafficofferslimitedbenefitinthiscase. What aboutother families of cost functions, such as polynomials with nonnegative coefficients and bounded degree? It turns out that the Pigou bound is also tight for this family and that the nonlinear variant of Pigou’s example offers the worst-possible price of anarchyin this case (where p is the boundon the polynomials’degree). Forthisfamilyα( ) = [1 p (p+1)−(p+1)/p]−1. Togivesome C − · UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 6.4 Congestiongames 183 examples, this means that the price of anarchyis about 1.6 for p = 2, about2.2 forp = 4,about18forp = 100and—asitwasearlier—unboundedasp . → ∞ Results also existboundingthe price ofanarchyforgeneralnonatomiccongestion games. It is beyond the scope of this section to state these results formally, but we note that they are qualitatively similar to the results given above. More informationcanbefoundinthereferencescitedinthechapternotes. Reducingthesocialcostofselfishrouting When the equilibrium social cost is undesirably high, a network operator might wantto intervenein somewayin orderto reduceit. First, we giveanexampleto Braess’paradox showthatsuchinterventionsarepossible,knownasBraess’paradox. v v c(x)=x c(x)=1 c(x)=x c(x)=1 s c(x)=0 t s t c(x)=1 c(x)=x c(x)=1 c(x)=x w w Figure 6.15: Braess’ paradox: removing an edge that has zero cost can improve socialwelfare. Left: originalnetwork;Right: afteredgeremoval. Consider first the example in Figure 6.15 (Left). This selfish routing problem isessentiallyamorecomplicatedversionofthelinearversionofPigou’sexample fromFigure6.14(left). Againn = 1andµ = 1. Agentshaveaweaklydominant 1 strategy of choosing the path s-v-w-t, and so in equilibrium all traffic will flow alongthispath. Thesocialcostinequilibriumistherefore1. Minimalsocialcost isachievedbyhavinghalfoftheagentschoosethepaths-v-tandhavingtheother halfof the agents choosethe path s-w-t; the socialcost in this case is 3/4. Like thelinearversionofPigou’sexample,therefore,thepriceofanarchyis4/3. The interesting thing about this new example is the role played by the edge vw. One might intuitively believe that zero-cost edges can only help in routing problems,becausetheyprovideagentswith acostlesswayofroutingtraffic from one node to another. At worst, one might reason, such edges would be ignored. However,thisintuitioniswrong. ConsiderthenetworkinFigure6.15(right). This network was constructed from the network in Figure 6.15 (left) by removing the zero-cost edge v-w. In this modified problem agents no longer have a dominant strategy; the equilibrium is for halfof them to chooseeach path. This is also the optimalactiondistribution,andhencethepriceofanarchyinthiscaseis1. Wecan now see the (apparent)paradox: removingevena zero-costedge cantransform a selfishroutingproblemfromtheveryworst(anetworkhavingthehighestpriceof Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 184 6 RicherRepresentations:BeyondtheNormalandExtensiveForms anarchypossiblegivenits family ofcostfunctions)to theverybest(anetworkin whichselfishagentswillchoosetoroutethemselvesoptimally). A network operator facing a high price of anarchy might therefore want to removeone