stated,Theorem6.1.5isrestrictedtoinfinitelyrepeatedgames,toaveragereward, to the Nash equilibrium, and to games of complete information. However, there arefolk theoremsthatholdforotherversionsofeachofthese conditions,as well as otherconditions not mentionedhere. In particular, there are folk theorems for infinitelyrepeatedgameswithdiscountedreward(foralargeenoughdiscountfactor),forfinitelyrepeatedgames,forsubgame-perfectequilibria(i.e.,whereagents only administer finite punishmentsto deviators), and for games of incomplete information. Wedonotreviewthemhere,butthemessageofeachofthemisfundamentallythesame: thepayoffsintheequilibriaofarepeatedgameareessentially constrainedonlybyenforceabilityandfeasibility. 6.1.3 “Boundedrationality": repeatedgamesplayedbyautomata Untilnow wehaveassumedthatplayerscanengagein arbitrarily deepreasoning and mutual modeling, regardless of their complexity. In particular, consider the fact that we have tended to rely on equilibrium concepts as predictions of—or prescriptions for—behavior. Even in the relatively uncontroversial case of twoplayer zero-sum games, this is a questionable stance in practice; otherwise, for example, there would be no point in chess competitions. While we will continue to make this questionable assumption in much of the remainder of the book, we pauseheretorevisitit. Weaskwhathappenswhenagentsarenotperfectlyrational expected-utilitymaximizers. Inparticular,weaskwhathappenswhenweimpose specificcomputationallimitationsonthem. Consider(yetagain)aninstanceofthePrisoner’sDilemma,whichisreproduced in Figure 6.3. In the finitely repeated version of this game, we know that each player’s dominant strategy (and thus the only Nash equilibrium) is to choose the strategyD ineachiterationofthegame. Inreality,whenpeopleactuallyplaythe game, we typically observea significantamountofcooperation, especiallyin the earlieriterationsofthegame. Whilemuchofgametheoryisopentothecriticism thatitdoesnotmatchwellwithhumanbehavior,thisisaparticularlystarkexample ofthisdivergence.Whatmodelsmightexplainthisfact? C D C 3,3 0,4 D 4,0 1,1 Figure6.3: Prisoner’sDilemmagame. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 154 6 RicherRepresentations:BeyondtheNormalandExtensiveForms One early proposal in the literature is based on the notion of an ǫ-equilibrium, definedinSection3.4.7. Recallthatthisisastrategyprofileinwhichnoagentcan gainmore than ǫ by changinghis strategy; a Nash equilibriumis thus the special case of a 0-equilibrium. This equilibrium concept is motivated by the idea that agents’rationality may be boundedin the sense that they are willing to settle for payoffsthatareslightlybelowtheirbestresponsepayoffs. Inthefinitelyrepeated Prisoner’sDilemmagame,asthenumberofrepetitionsincreases,thecorrespondingsets ofǫ-equilibria includeoutcomeswith longerandlongersequencesofthe “cooperate”strategy. Various other models of bounded rationality exist, but we will focus on what has proved to be the richest source of results so far, namely, restricting agents’ strategies to those implemented by automata of the sort investigatedin computer science. Finite-stateautomata Themotivationforusingautomatabecomesapparentwhenweconsidertherepresentationofa strategy in a repeatedgame. Recallthata finitely repeatedgameis an imperfect-informationextensive-formgame, and that a strategy forplayeri in sucha gameis a specificationofan actionforeveryinformationsetbelongingto that player. A strategy for k repetitions of an m-action game is thus a specificationof mk−1 differentactions. However,anaiveencodingofastrategyasatable m−1 mappingeachpossiblehistorytoanactioncanbeextremelyinefficient. Forexample, the strategy of choosing D in every round can be represented using just the single-stagestrategyD, and the Tit-for-Tat strategycanbe representedsimply by specifyingthattheplayermimicwhathisopponentdidinthepreviousround. One finite-state representation that exploits this structure is the finite-state automaton, or Moore automaton machine. The formal definition of a finite-state automaton in the context of a repeatedgameisasfollows. Mooremachine Definition6.1.6(Automaton) Given a game G = (N,A,u) that will be played repeatedly,anautomatonM forplayeriisafour-tuple(Q ,q0,δ ,f ),where: i i i i i • Q isasetofstates; i • q0 isthestartstate; i • δ : Q A Q is a transition functionmappingthe currentstate andan i i i × 7→ actionprofiletoanewstate;and • f : Q A isastrategyfunctionassociatingwitheverystateanactionfor i i i 7→ playeri. An automaton is used to representeach player’s repeated game strategy as follows. The machine begins in the start state q0, and in the first round plays the i action given by f (q0). Using the transition function and the actions played by i i UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 6.1 Repeatedgames 155 the other players in the first round, it then transitions automatically to the new