we can add vectors together and multiply them with scalars. The closure property guarantees that we endupwithanothervectorinthesamevectorspace.Itispossibletofind a set of vectors with which we can represent every vector in the vector space by adding them together and scaling them. This set of vectors is a basis, and we will discuss them in Section 2.6.1. Before we get there, we will need to introduce the concepts of linear combinations and linear independence. Definition 2.11 (Linear Combination). Consider a vector space V and a finitenumberofvectorsx ,...,x V.Then,everyv V oftheform 1 k ∈ ∈ k (cid:88) v = λ x + +λ x = λ x V (2.65) 1 1 k k i i ··· ∈ i=1 linearcombination withλ 1 ,...,λ k Risalinearcombinationofthevectorsx 1 ,...,x k . ∈ The 0-vector can always be written as the linear combination of k vectors x ,...,x because 0 = (cid:80)k 0x is always true. In the following, 1 k i=1 i we are interested in non-trivial linear combinations of a set of vectors to represent 0, i.e., linear combinations of vectors x ,...,x , where not all 1 k coefficientsλ in(2.65)are0. i Definition 2.12 (Linear (In)dependence). Let us consider a vector space V with k N and x ,...,x V. If there is a non-trivial linear com1 k bination, s ∈ uch that 0 = (cid:80)k λ ∈ x with at least one λ = 0, the vectors i=1 i i i (cid:54) linearlydependent x 1 ,...,x k are linearly dependent. If only the trivial solution exists, i.e., linearly λ 1 = ... = λ k = 0thevectorsx 1 ,...,x k arelinearlyindependent. independent Linear independence is one of the most important concepts in linear algebra.Intuitively,asetoflinearlyindependentvectorsconsistsofvectors that have no redundancy, i.e., if we remove any of those vectors from the set, we will lose something. Throughout the next sections, we will formalizethisintuitionmore. Example 2.13 (Linearly Dependent Vectors) A geographic example may help to clarify the concept of linear independence. A person in Nairobi (Kenya) describing where Kigali (Rwanda) is Draft(2019-12-11)of“MathematicsforMachineLearning”.Feedback:https://mml-book.com. 2.5 LinearIndependence 41 mightsay,“YoucangettoKigalibyfirstgoing506kmNorthwesttoKampala(Uganda)andthen374kmSouthwest.”.Thisissufficientinformation to describe the location of Kigali because the geographic coordinate systemmaybeconsideredatwo-dimensionalvectorspace(ignoringaltitude and the Earth’s curved surface). The person may add, “It is about 751km West of here.” Although this last statement is true, it is not necessary to find Kigali given the previous information (see Figure 2.7 for an illustration). In this example, the “506km Northwest” vector (blue) and the “374kmSouthwest”vector(purple)arelinearlyindependent.Thismeans the Southwest vector cannot be described in terms of the Northwest vector, and vice versa. However, the third “751km West” vector (black) is a linear combination of the other two vectors, and it makes the set of vectors linearly dependent. Equivalently, given “751km West” and “374km Southwest”canbelinearlycombinedtoobtain“506kmNorthwest”. Kampala Figure2.7 w e s t 506 km G (w eo it g h ra cr p u h d ic e example h N S o u t orthw est a ca p r p d r i o n x a i l m d a ir ti e o c n ti