 +λ 2   1   , λ 1 ,λ 2 R . (2.47)    ∈   − 1    0     − 2   ∈       0 0 1  Inthefollowing,wewilldetailaconstructivewaytoobtainaparticular andgeneralsolutionofasystemoflinearequations. Remark(PivotsandStaircaseStructure). Theleadingcoefficientofarow pivot (first nonzero number from the left) is called the pivot and is always strictly to the right of the pivot of the row above it. Therefore, any equationsysteminrow-echelonformalwayshasa“staircase”structure. ♦ row-echelonform Definition 2.6 (Row-EchelonForm). Amatrixisinrow-echelonformif All rows that contain only zeros are at the bottom of the matrix; correspondingly, all rows that contain at least one nonzero element are on topofrowsthatcontainonlyzeros. Looking at nonzero rows only, the first nonzero number from the left pivot (also called the pivot or the leading coefficient) is always strictly to the leadingcoefficient rightofthepivotoftherowaboveit. Inothertexts,itis Remark (Basic and Free Variables). The variables corresponding to the sometimesrequired thatthepivotis1. pivots in the row-echelon form are called basic variables and the other basicvariable variables are free variables. For example, in (2.45), x 1 ,x 3 ,x 4 are basic freevariable variables,whereasx ,x arefreevariables. 2 5 ♦ Remark (Obtaining a Particular Solution). The row-echelon form makes Draft(2019-12-11)of“MathematicsforMachineLearning”.Feedback:https://mml-book.com. 2.3 SolvingSystemsofLinearEquations 31 our lives easier when we need to determine a particular solution. To do this,weexpresstheright-handsideoftheequationsystemusingthepivot columns, such that b = (cid:80)P λ p , where p , i = 1,...,P, are the pivot i=1 i i i columns.Theλ aredeterminedeasiestifwestartwiththerightmostpivot i columnandworkourwaytotheleft. Inthepreviousexample,wewouldtrytofindλ ,λ ,λ sothat 1 2 3         1 1 1 0 − 0 1  1  2 λ 1 0   +λ 2 0   +λ 3  − 1   =   − 1   . (2.48) 0 0 0 0 Fromhere,wefindrelativelydirectlythatλ = 1,λ = 1,λ = 2.When 3 2 1 − we put everything together, we must not forget the non-pivot columns for which we set the coefficients implicitly to 0. Therefore, we get the particularsolutionx = [2,0, 1,1,0](cid:62). − ♦ Remark (Reduced Row Echelon Form). An equation system is in reduced reduced row-echelonform(also:row-reducedechelonformorrowcanonicalform)if row-echelonform Itisinrow-echelonform. Everypivotis1. Thepivotistheonlynonzeroentryinitscolumn. ♦ Thereducedrow-echelonformwillplayanimportantrolelaterinSection 2.3.3 because it allows us to determine the general solution of a systemoflinearequationsinastraightforwardway. Gaussian Remark(GaussianElimination). Gaussianeliminationisanalgorithmthat elimination performselementarytransformationstobringasystemoflinearequations intoreducedrow-echelonform. ♦ Example 2.7 (Reduced Row Echelon Form) Verifythatthefollowingmatrixisinreducedrow-echelonform(thepivots areinbold):   1 3 0 0 3 A = 0 0 1 0 9  . (2.49) 0 0 0 1 4 − The key idea for finding the solutions of Ax = 0 is to look at the nonpivotcolumns,whichwewillneedtoexpressasa(linear)combinationof the pivot columns. The reduced row echelon form makes this relatively straightforward, and we express the non-pivot columns in terms of sums and multiples of the pivot columns that are on their left: The second column is 3 times the first column (we can ignore the pivot columns on the right of the second column). Therefore, to obtain 0, we need to subtract (cid:13)c2019M.P.Deisenroth,A.A.Faisal,C.S.Ong.TobepublishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress. 32 LinearAlgebra thesecondcolumnfromthreetimesthefirstcolumn.Now,welookatthe fifthcolumn,whichisoursecondnon-pivotcolumn.Thefifthcolumncan be expressed as 3 times the