This is indeed the case. WestartwithsystemK,butnowusetheK todenotethemodaloperatorsrather i than2 ,representingtheinterpretationwehaveinmind.3 i Axiom13.3.1(Classical) Allpropositionaltautologiesarevalid. Axiom13.3.2(K) (K ϕ K (ϕ ψ)) K ψ i i i ∧ → → Rule13.3.3(ModusPonens) Fromϕandϕ ψinferψ. → Rule13.3.4(Necessitation) FromϕinferK ϕ. i Note that the generic axiom K takes on a special meaning under this interpretation of the modal operator—it states that an agentknows all of the tautological consequencesofthatknowledge. Thus, if youknowthat it is aftermidnight, and ifyouknowthatthepresidentisalwaysasleepaftermidnight,thenyouknowthat the presidentis asleep. Less plausibly, if you know the Peano axioms, you know all the theorems of arithmetic. For this reason, this property is sometimes called logical logicalomniscience. Onecouldarguethatthispropertyistoostrong,thatitistoo omniscience 3. Westicktothisnotationforhistoricalaccuracy,butthereadershouldnotbeconfusedbyit.Theaxiomatic systemKandtheaxiomKthatgivesrisetothenamehavenothingtodowiththesyntacticsymbolKiwe usetodescribetheknowledgeofanagent. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 418 13 LogicsofKnowledgeandBelief much to expectof an agent. After all, humans do not seem to know the full consequencesofall oftheirknowledge. Similar criticisms canbe leviedalso against theotheraxiomswediscussbelow. Thisisanimportanttopic,andwereturnedto it later. However, it is a fact that the idealized notion of “knowledge”defined by the partition modelhas the propertyof logicalomniscience. So to the extentthat thepartitionmodelisuseful(anditis,aswediscusslaterinthechapter),onemust learntolivewithsomeofthestrongpropertiesitinduceson“knowledge.” OtherpropertiesofknowledgedonotholdforgeneralKripkestructures,andare consistency thusnotderivableinthe Kaxiomsystem. Oneofthesepropertiesis consistency, which states that an agent cannot know a contradiction. The following axiom, calledaxiomDforhistoricalreasons,capturesthisproperty: Axiom13.3.5(D) K (p p). i ¬ ∧¬ Note that this axiom cannot be inferred from the axiom system K and is thus not valid in the class of all n-Kripke structures. It is, however, valid in the more serial restricted class of serial models, in which each accessibility is serial. (A binary accessibility relation X over domain Y is serial if and only if y Y y′ Y such that relation (y,y′) X.) Indeed,asweshallsee,itisnotonly ∀ soun ∈ dbut ∃ also ∈ complete. The ∈ axiomsystemobtainedbyaddingaxiomDtotheaxiomsystemKiscalledaxiom systemKD. Anotherpropertythatholdsforourcurrentnotionofknowledgeisthatofveridveridity ity;itisimpossibleforanagenttoknowsomethingthatisnotactuallytrue. Indeed, thisisoftentakentobethepropertythatdistinguishesknowledgefromotherinformationalattitudes,suchasbelief. Wecanexpressthispropertywiththeso-called axiomT: Axiom13.3.6(T) K ϕ ϕ. i → This axiom also cannot be inferred from the axiom system KD. Again, the class of Kripke structures for which axiom T is sound and complete can be defined succinctly —it consists of the Kripke structures in which each accessibility reflexive relation is reflexive. (A binary relation X overdomain Y is reflexive if and only accessibility if y Y,(y,y) X. Note thaty = y′ is allowed.) By addingaxiomT tothe relation sy ∀ stem ∈ KDwege ∈ ttheaxiomsystemKDT. However,inthissystemtheaxioms are no longer independent; the axiom system KDT is equivalent to the axiom systemKT,sincetheaxiomDcanbederivedfromtheremainingaxiomsandthe inferencerules. Indeed,thisfollowseasilyfromthecompletenesspropertiesofthe individualaxioms;everyreflexiverelationistriviallyalsoserial. Therearetwoadditionalpropertiesofknowledgeinducedbythepartitionmodel which are not captured by the axioms discussed thus far. They both have to do withtheintrospectivecapabilitiesofagivenagent,orthenestingoftheknowledge positive operation.Wefirstconsiderpositiveintrospection,thepropertythat,whenanagent introspection knows something, he knows that he knows it. It is expressed by the following axiom,historicallycalledaxiom4: UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 13.3 S5:Anaxiomatictheoryofthepartitionmodel 419 Axiom13.3.7(4) K ϕ K K ϕ. i i i → Again, it does not follow from the other axioms discussed so far. The class of Kripke structures for which axiom 4 is sound and complete consists of the structures in which each accessibility relation is transitive. (A binary relation X is transitiveifandonlyifforally,y′,y′′ Y itis thecasethatif (y,y′) X and ∈ ∈ (y′,y′′) X then(y,y′′) X.) ∈ ∈ negative Thelastpropertyofknowledgewewillconsiderisnegativeintrospection. This introspection isquitesimilartopositiveintrospection,buthereweareconcernedthatifanagent doesnotknowsomething,thenheknowsthathedoesnotknowit. Weexpressthis withthefollowingaxiom,calledaxiom5: Axiom13.3.8(5) K ϕ K K ϕ. i i i ¬ → ¬ Again, it does not