of radius ρ). Unlike the previous example, the robot’s motion is also subject to error; given a command to move in a certain direction, the robot’s actual motion can deviate up to ∆ degrees from the prescribed direction. It is again assumed that when the robot is given the command “Go in direction D” it moves at some finite velocity, always moving within ∆ degrees from that direction, but that the deviation is not consistent and can change arbitrarily within the tolerance ∆. It is not hard to see that the space of locations reachable by the robot is described by a cone whose angle is 2∆, as depicted in Figure 13.5. Again we ask, what is a good termination condition for the robot? One candidate is a rectangle inside UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 13.5 Doingtime,andanapplicationtorobotics 425 I initial state I G− the goal D− the motion direction − max. ang le of deviation − max. deviation in readings D Cone of possible positions G Figure13.5: Atwo-dimensionalrobotmotionproblem the goal region whose sides are ∆ away from the correspondingside of the goal rectangle. Clearly this is a sound condition, but not a complete one. Figure 13.6 depictsanothercandidate,termedthe“naiveterminationcondition”—allthesensor readingsintheregionwith thedashedboundary. Althoughitisnowlessobvious, this termination condition is also sound—but, again, not complete. In contrast, Figure13.7showsaterminationconditionthatisbothsoundandcomplete. Considernowthetwosoundandcompleteterminationconditionsidentifiedfor the two problems, the one-dimensional one and the two-dimensional. Geometrically, they seem to bear no similarity, and yet one’s intuition might be that they embody the same principle. Can one articulate this principle, and thus perhaps lateronapplyittoyetotherproblems? Todosoweabstracttowhatissometimes calledtheknowledgelevel. Ratherthanspeakabouttheparticulargeometryofthe situation,letusreasonmoreabstractlyabouttheknowledgeavailabletotherobot. Not surprisingly, we choose to do it using possible-worlds semantics and specificallytheS5modelofknowledge. Defineahistoryoftherobotasamappingfrom timetobothlocationandsensorreading. Thatis,ahistorytellsuswheretherobot has been at any point in time and its sensor reading at that time. Clearly, every motionplanningproblem—includingboththe ones presentedhere—definesa set oflegalhistories. For everymotion planningproblem, ourset ofpossible worlds willconsistofpairs(h,t),wherehisalegalhistoryandtisatimepoint. Wewill saythat(h,t)isaccessiblefrom(h′,t′)ifthesensorreadinginhattisidentical to the sensorreadingin h′ at t′. Clearly, this defines anequivalencerelation. We nowneedalanguagetospeakaboutsuchpossible-worldsstructures. Asusual,we Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 426 13 LogicsofKnowledgeandBelief Uncertainty I disk Goal boundary (G) Boundary of the naive termination condition D Cone of possible D positions possible readings in E that do not correspond to reachable positions A r G 1 r The Naive Termination 2 Condition B Figure 13.6: A sound but incomplete termination condition for the twodimensionalrobotmotionproblem. I The termination condition G Figure13.7:Asoundandcompleteterminationconditionforthetwo-dimensional robotmotionproblem. UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 13.5 Doingtime,andanapplicationtorobotics 427 willusetheKoperatortodenoteknowledge,thatis,truthinallaccessibleworlds. We will also use a temporaloperator3 whosemeaningwill be “sometimein the past.” Specifically, h,t = 3ϕholdsath,t justincasethereexistsat′ tsuch | ≤ thath,t′ = ϕ.4 Armedwiththis,wearereadytoprovideaknowledge–levelcon- | ditionthatcapturesboththespecificgeometriconesgivenearlier. Itisdeceptively simple. Letgbetheformulameaning“Iaminthegoalregion”(whichisofcourse instantiateddifferentlyinthetwoexamples). ThenthesoundandcompleteterminationconditionissimplyK3g,readinginformally“IknowthateitherIaminthe goalregionnow, orelse sometimein the pastI was.” Itturns outthatthis simple terminationconditionisnotonlysoundandcompleteforthesetwoexamples,but is so also in a much larger setof examples, and is furthermoreoptimal: it causes therobottostopnolaterthananyothersoundandcompleteterminationcondition. 13.5.2 Coordinatingrobots We now extend this discussion to a multiagent setting. Add to the first example a secondrobotthatmust coordinatewith the first robot(numberthe robots 1 and 2). Specifically, robot 2 must take an action at the exact time (and never before) robot1stopsinthegoalarea. Forconcreteness,thinkoftherobotsasteammatesin theannualroboticcompetition,where roboticsoccerteamscompeteagainsteach other. Robot2needstopasstheballtorobot1infrontoftheopposinggoal. Robot 1 must be stopped to receive the pass, but the pass must be completed as soon it stops, or else