the defense will have time to react. The robots must coordinate on the pass without the help of communication. Instead, we provide robot 2 with a sensorofrobot1’sposition. LetR bethesensorreadingofthefirstrobot,R be 1 2 thatofthesecond,andpthetruepositionofrobot1. The sound and complete termination condition that we seek in this setting is actually a conjunction of termination conditions for the two robots. Soundness meansthatrobot1neverstopsoutsidethegoalareaandrobot2nevertakesitsactionwhenrobot1isnotstoppedinthegoalarea. Completenessobviouslymeans that the robots eventuallycoordinate on their respective actions. As in the example of the warring generals, the two robots need common knowledge in order to coordinate. Forexample,ifbothrobotsknowthatrobot1 is in thegoalbutrobot 1doesnotknowthatrobot2knowsthis,thenrobot1cannotstop,becauserobot2 maynotknowtopasstheballatthatpointintime. Thus,thesoundandcomplete terminationconditionofK(3g)in thesinglerobotsetting becomesC (3g) in 1,2 thecurrentsetting,wheregnowmeans“Robot1isinthegoal.” Thatis,whenthis factbecomescommonknowledgeforthefirsttime,therobotstaketheirrespective actions. So far, we have left the sensor of robot 2 unspecified. In the first instance we analyze, let robot 2 be equippedwith a sensor identical to robot 1’s. That is, the sensorreturns the position of robot 1 within the interval[L 1,L +1], and the − 4. Thisoperatoristakenfromtherealmoftemporallogic,whereitusuallyappearsinconjunctionofother modalities;however,thosearenotrequiredforourexample. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 428 13 LogicsofKnowledgeandBelief noiseof the sensoris deterministic so thatthis valueis exactlyequalto the value observed by robot 1. Further, assume that this setting is common knowledge betweenthe two robots. We canformalizethe setting as a partition modelin which apossibleworld(whichwas(h,t)above)isatuple p,R ,R . Thepartitionsof 1 2 h i the two robots define equivalenceclasses based on the sensorof thatagent. That is, P ( p,R ,R ) = p′,R′,R′ (R = R′) , for i = 1,2. The common i h 1 2 i {h 1 2i| i i } knowledgeofthepropertiesofthesensorsreducesthespaceofpossibleworldsto all p,R ,R suchthat p R 1andR = R . Thelatterpropertyimplies 1 2 1 1 2 h i | − | ≤ thatthepartitionstructuresforthetwoagentsareidentical. We can now analyze this partition model to find our answer. From the single robotcase,weknowthatR 3 K (3g). Thisstatementcanbeverifiedeas1 1 ≥ → ilyusingthepartitionstructure. Recallthesemanticdefinitionofcommonknowledge: thepropositionmustbetrueinthelastworldofeverysequenceofpossible worldsthatstartsatthecurrentworldandonlytransitionstoaworldthatisinthe partitionofanagent. Becausethepartitionstructuresareidentical,startingfroma worldinwhichR 3, wecannottransitionoutoftheidenticalpartitionwe are 1 inforbothagents,a ≥ ndthusC (3g)holds. Therefore,therobotscancoordinate 1,2 byusingthesameruleastheprevioussection: robot1stopswhenR 3isfirst 1 ≥ true,androbot2takesitsactionwhenR 3isfirsttrue. Sinceanylowersensor 2 readingdoesnotpermiteitherrobottokno ≥ w3g,itisalsothecasethatthisruleis optimal. One year later, we are preparing for the next robotic competition. We have receivedenoughfundingtopurchaseaperfectsensor(onethatalwaysreturnsthe true position of robot 1). We replace the sensor for robot 2 with this sensor, but we do nothave enoughmoneyleft overto buy eithera new sensorfor robot1 or a means of communication between the two robots. Still, we are optimistic that our improved equipment will allow us to fare better this year by improving the termination condition so that the pass can be completed earlier. Since we have differentcommonknowledgeaboutthesensors,wehaveadifferentsetofpossible worlds. In this instance, each possible world p,R ,R must satisfy p = R 1 2 2 h i instead of R = R while also satisfying p R 1 as before. This change 1 2 1 | − | ≤ causes the robots to no longer have identical partition structures. Analyzing the newstructure,wequicklyrealizethatnotonlycanwenotimprovethetermination condition,butalsothatouroldrulenolongerworks. AssoonasR 3becomes 2 true,wehavebothK (3g)andK (3g). However,inthepartition ≥ forrobot2in 1 2 whichR = 3,wefindpossibleworldsinwhichR < 3. Intheseworlds,robot1 2 1 doesnotknowthatitis inthegoal. Thus,wehave K (K (3g)), whichmeans 2 1 ¬ that robot 2 cannot take the action because robot 1 might not stop to receive the pass. Suppose we try to