validsentenceswithinagivenclass. Herewediscussthefirstquestionofcapturing the sentencesthat are valid in all Kripke structures; in future sections we discuss specificclassesofmodelsofparticularinterest. Considerthefollowingaxiomsystem,calledtheaxiomsystemK. Axiom13.2.1(Classical) Allpropositionaltautologiesarevalid. Axiom13.2.2(K) (2ϕ 2(ϕ ψ)) 2ψisvalid. ∧ → → Rule13.2.3(ModusPonens) Ifbothϕandϕ ψarevalid,inferthevalidityof → ψ. Rule13.2.4(Necessitation) Fromthevalidityofϕinferthevalidityof2ϕ. Itisnothardtoseethatthisaxiomsystemissound;allthesentencespronounced valid by these axioms and inference rules are indeed true in every Kripke model. Whatislessobvious,butnonethelesstrue,isthatthisisalsoacompletesystemfor theclassofallKripkemodels;theredonotexistadditionalsentencesthataretrue representation inallKripkemodels. Thuswehavethefollowingrepresentationtheorem: theorem Theorem13.2.5 The system K is soundand completefor the class of all Kripke models. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 416 13 LogicsofKnowledgeandBelief 13.2.4 Modallogicswithmultiplemodaloperators We have so far discussed a single modal operator and a single accessibility relation corresponding to it. But it is easy to generalize the formulation to include multiple of each. Rather than have a single modal operator 2 we have operators 2 ,2 ,...,2 . Thesetofpossibleworldsis unchanged,butnowwehavenac1 2 n cessibilityrelations: R ,R ,...,R . Thelastsemantictruthconditionischanged 1 2 n to: • Foranyi = 1,...,n,M,w = 2 ϕiff,foranyw′ W suchthatR (w,w′), i i | ∈ itisthecasethatM,w′ = ϕ. | Finally,bymakingsimilarsubstitutionsintheaxiomsystemK,wegetasound andcompleteaxiomatizationformodallogicwithnmodalities. WesometimesdenotethesystemK n toemphasizethefactthatitcontainsnmodalities. Again,we emphasizethatthis is soundnessandcompletenessfortheclass ofall n-modality Kripkemodels. ThesystemremainssoundifwerestricttheclassofKripkemodelsunderconsideration. Ingeneral,itisnolongercomplete,butoftenwecanadd axiomsand/orinferencerulesandrecapturecompleteness. 13.2.5 Remarksaboutfirst-ordermodallogic We haveso fardiscussedpropositionalmodellogic, thatis, modallogicin which the underlying classical logic is propositional. But we can also look at the case inwhichtheunderlyinglogicisaricherfirst-orderlanguage. Insuchafirst-order modallogicwecanexpresssentencessuchas2 x yFather(y,x)(read“neces- ∀ ∃ sarily,everyonehasafather”). Wewillnotdiscussfirst-orderindetail,sinceitwill not play a role in what follows. And in fact the technical developmentis for the mostpartunremarkable,anditsimplymirrorstheadditionalrichnessoffirst-order logicascomparedtothepropositionalcalculus. There are howeversome interesting subtleties, which we pointoutbriefly here. Barcanformula The first has to do with the question of whether the so-called Barcan formula is valid. x2R(x) 2 xR(x) ∀ → ∀ Forexample,when we interpret2 as “know,”we mightask whether, if forevery personitisknownindividuallythatthepersonishonest,itfollowsthatitisknown that all people are honest. One can imagine some settings in which the intuitive answeris yes, and others in which it is no. From the technicalpointof view, the answerdependsonthe domainsofthevariousmodels. Infirst-ordermodallogic, possibleworldsarefirst-ordermodels. Thismeansinparticularthateachpossible world has a domain, or a set of individuals to which terms in the language are mapped. It is nothard to see thatthe Barcanformula is valid in the class of firstorderKripkemodelsinwhichallpossibleworldshavethesamedomain,butnotin general. UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 13.3 S5:Anaxiomatictheoryofthepartitionmodel 417 Asimilarproblemhastodowiththeinteractionbetweenmodalityandequality. Ifa = b, thenis italwaysthecasethat2(a = b)? Again,forintuition, consider theknowledgeinterpretationof2andthefollowingfamousphilosophicalexample. Suppose there are two objects, the “morning star” and the “evening star.” These aretwostarsthatareobservedregularly,oneintheeveningandoneinthemorning. Itso happensthese arethe sameobject, namely,the planetVenus. Doesit follow thatoneknowsthattheyare thesameobject? Intuitively, the answeris no. From the technical point of view, this is because, even if the domains of all possible worlds are the same, the interpretation function which maps language terms to objects might be differentin the differentworlds. For similar reasons, in general one cannot infer that the world’s greatest jazz soprano saxophonist was born in 1897 based on the fact that Sidney Bechetwas born that year, since one may not knowthatSidneyBechetwas indeedthe bestsopranosaxplayerthatevergraced thisplanet. 13.3 S5: Anaxiomatictheory ofthepartition model We have seen that the axiom system K precisely captures the sentences that are valid in the class of all Kripke models. We now return to the partition model of knowledge, and search for an axiom system that is sound and complete for this morerestrictedclassofKripkemodels. Sinceitisasmallerclass,itreasonableto expect that it will be captured by an expanded set of axioms.