vector θ = (s(a ),...,s(a )) is a 1 k Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 228 7 LearningandTeaching stablesteadystateofthereplicatordynamicofG,thenthestrategyprofile(s,s)is amixedstrategyNashequilibriumofG. In other words, every stable steady state is a Nash equilibrium. It is easier to understand the contrapositive of this statement. If a mixed-strategyprofile is not aNashequilibrium,thensomeactionmusthaveahigherpayoffthansomeofthe actions in its support. Then in the replicator dynamicthe share ofthe population using this better action will increase, once it exists. Then it is not possible that thepopulationstatecorrespondingtothismixed-strategyprofileisastablesteady state. Finally,weshowthatasymptoticstabilitycorrespondstoanotionthatisstronger thanNashequilibrium. Recallthedefinitionoftrembling-handperfection(Definition3.4.14),reproducedhereforconvenience. Definition7.7.7(Trembling-handperfectequilibrium) Amixed-strategyprofile sisa(trembling-hand)perfectequilibriumofanormal-formgameGifthereexists a sequence s0,s1,... of fully mixed-strategy profiles such that lim sn = s, n→∞ and such that for each sk in the sequence and each player i, the strategy s is a i bestresponsetothestrategiessk . −i Furthermore,wesayinformallythatanequilibriumstrategyprofileisisolatedif theredoes notexistanotherequilibriumstrategy profile in the neighborhood(i.e., reachableviasmallperturbationsofthestrategies)oftheoriginalprofile. Thenwe canrelatetrembling-handperfectiontothereplicatordynamicasfollows. Theorem7.7.8 Givenanormal-formgameG = ( 1,2 ,A,u)andamixedstrat- { } egys,ifthepopulationsharevectorθ = (s(a ),...,s(a ))isanasymptotically 1 k stablesteadystateofthereplicatordynamicofG,thenthestrategyprofile(s,s)is aNashequilibriumofGthatistrembling-handperfectandisolated. 7.7.2 Evolutionarilystablestrategies evolutionarily An evolutionarilystable strategy(ESS)is a stability conceptthat was inspired by stablestrategy thereplicatordynamic. However,unlikethesteadystatesdiscussedearlier,itdoes (ESS) notrequirethereplicatordynamic,oranydynamicprocess,explicitly;ratheritis astaticsolutionconcept. Thusinprincipleitisnotinherentlylinkedtolearning. Roughly speaking, an evolutionarily stable strategy is a mixed strategy that is “resistant to invasion” by new strategies. Suppose that a population of players is playing a particular mixed strategy in the replicator dynamic. Then suppose that a small population of “invaders” playing a different strategy is added to the population. The original strategy is considered to be an ESS if it gets a higher payoffagainsttheresultingmixtureofthenewandoldstrategiesthantheinvaders do,thereby“chasingout”theinvaders. Moreformally,wehavethefollowing. UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 7.7 Evolutionarylearningandotherlarge-populationmodels 229 Definition7.7.9(Evolutionarilystablestrategy(ESS)) Given a symmetric twoplayernormal-formgameG = ( 1,2 ,A,u) andamixedstrategys,wesaythat { } sisanevolutionarilystablestrategyifandonlyifforsomeǫ > 0andforallother strategiess′itisthecasethat u(s,(1 ǫ)s+ǫs′)> u(s′,(1 ǫ)s+ǫs′). − − Wecanusepropertiesofexpectationtostatethisconditionequivalentlyas (1 ǫ)u(s,s)+ǫu(s,s′) > (1 ǫ)u(s′,s)+ǫu(s′,s′). − − Note that, since this onlyneedsto holdforsmall ǫ, this is equivalentto requiring thateitheru(s,s) > u(s′,s)holds,orelsebothu(s,s) = u(s′,s)andu(s,s′)> u(s′,s′) hold. Note that this is a strict definition. We can also state a weaker definitionofESS. weak Definition7.7.10(WeakESS) s is a weak evolutionarily stable strategy if and evolutionarily only if for some ǫ > 0 and for all s′ it is the case that either u(s,s) > u(s′,s) stablestrategy holds,orelsebothu(s,s)= u(s′,s)andu(s,s′) u(s′,s′)hold. ≥ Thisweakerdefinitionincludesstrategiesinwhichtheinvaderdoesjustaswell againsttheoriginalpopulationasitdoesagainstitself. Inthesecasesthepopulation usingtheinvadingstrategywillnotgrow,butitwillalsonotshrink. We illustrate the concept of ESS with the instance of the Hawk–Dove game shown in Figure 7.10. The story behind this game might be as follows. Two H D H 2, 2 6,0 − − D 0,6 3,3 Figure7.10: Hawk–Dovegame. animalsarefightingoveraprizesuchasapieceoffood. Eachanimalcanchoose betweentwobehaviors: anaggressivehawkishbehaviorH,oranaccommodating dovish behavior D. The prize is worth 6 to each of them. Fighting costs each player5. When a hawkmeets a dovehegets the prizewithouta fight, andhence the payoffs are 6 and 0, respectively. When two doves meet they split the prize without a fight, hence a payoff of 3 to each one. When two hawks meet a fight breaksout,costingeachplayer5(or,equivalently,yielding 5). Inaddition,each − playerhas a 50% chanceof endingup with the prize, addingan expectedbenefit of3,foranoverallpayoffof 2. − It is nothardto verifythatthe gamehas a uniquesymmetric Nashequilibrium (s,s), where s = (3,2), and that s is also the unique ESS of the game. To 5 5 Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 230 7 LearningandTeaching confirm that s is an ESS, we need that for all s′ =