Naturechoosesrandomlybetweenthetwogames. Recall that player 1 knows which game is being played, and will choose his message first (U or D), and then player 2, who does not know which game is beingplayed,willchoosehisaction(LorR). Whatshouldplayer1do? Note thatin the leftmostgame(U,R) is an equilibriumin dominantstrategies, and in rightmost game (D,L) is an equilibrium in dominant strategies. Since player 2’s preferred action depends entirely on the game being played, and he is confident that player 1 will play his dominant strategy, his best response is R if player1choosesU,andLifplayer1choosesD. Ifplayer2playsinthisfashion, wecancalculatetheexpectedpayofftoplayer1as E(u ) = (0.5)1+(0.5)2 = 1.5. 1 This seems like an optimal strategy. However, consider a different strategy for player 1. If player 1 always chooses D, regardless of what game he is playing, then his payoff is independent of player 2’s action. We calculate the expected payoff to player 1 as follows, assuming that player 2 plays L with probability p andRwithprobability(1 p): − E(u ) = (0.5)(3p+0(1 p))+(0.5)(2p+5(1 p)) = 2.5. 1 − − Thus,player1hasahigherexpectedpayoffifhealwayschoosesthemessageD. The example highlights an interesting property of signaling games. Although player1hasprivilegedinformation,itmaynotalwaysbetohisadvantagetoexploit it. This is because by exploiting the advantage, he is effectively telling player 2 whatgameisbeingplayedandtherebylosinghisadvantage. Thus,insomecases player1canreceiveahigherpayoffbyignoringhisinformation. UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 8.3 “Doingbytalking”II:speech-acttheory 241 Signalinggamesfall undertheumbrella term of gamesofasymmetricinformagamesof tion. One of the best-known examples is the so-called Spence signaling game, asymmetric which offers a rationale for enrolling in a difficult academic program. Consider information the situation in which an employer is trying to decide how much to pay a new worker. The worker may or may not be talented, and can signal this to the emSpence signalinggame ployerbychoosingtogeteitherahighorlowlevelofeducation. Specifically,we can model the setting as a Bayesian game between an employer and a worker in which Naturefirst choosesthe levelof the worker’s talent, θ, to be either θ or L θ , such thatθ < θ . This valueofθ definestwo differentpossiblegames. In H L H eachpossiblegame,theworker’sstrategyspaceisthelevelofeducationetogetfor bothpossibletypes,orleveloftalent. Weusee torefertothelevelofeducation L chosenbytheworkerifhistalentlevelisθ ande fortheeducationchosenifhis L H talentlevelisθ . Weassumethattheworkerknowshistalent. H Finally, the employer’s strategy specifies two wages, w and w , to offer a H L worker based on whether his signal is e or e . We assume that the employer H L does not know the level of talent of the worker, but does get to observe his level ofeducation. Theemployeris assumedtohavetwo choices. Oneis toignorethe signalandsetw = w = p θ +p θ ,wherep +p = 1aretheprobabilities H L H H L L L H withwhichNaturechoosesahighandlowtalentfortheworker. Theotheristo payaworkerwithahigheducationw andaworkerwithaloweducationw . H L The payoff to the employer is θ w, the difference between the talent of the − workerand the paymentto him. The payoffto the worker is w e/θ, reflecting − theassumptionthateducationiseasierwhentalentishigher. pooling This game has two equilibria. The first is a pooling equilibrium, in which the equilibrium workerwillchoosethesamelevelofeducationregardlessofhistype(e = e = L H e∗),andtheemployerpaysallworkersthesameamount. Theotherisaseparating separating equilibrium,inwhichtheworkerwillchooseadifferentlevelofeducationdependequilibrium ing on his type. In this case a low-talent worker will choose to get no education, e = 0,becausethewagepaidtothisworkerisw ,independentofe . TheeducaL L L tionchosenbyahigh-talentworkerissetinsuchawayastomakeitunprofitable foreithertypeofworkertomimictheother. Thisisthecaseonlyifthefollowing twoinequalitiesaresatisfied. θ θ e /θ L H H L ≥ − θ θ e