Ingeneral,writeu (µ)todenotestudents’s s payoffformatchingµ. Similarly,lettherebesuchapayofffunctionoverstudents for each advisor. For each coalition T N, each different matching within the ⊆ groupgivesrisetodifferentpayoffvectorsforitsmembers. Amatchingµisinthecoreifthereisnocoalitionofadvisorsandstudentswhere allmembersofthecoalitionareweaklybetteroffmatchingonlyamongthemselves, and at least one member is strictly better off. Mathematically, µ is in the core if andonlyifthereisnomatchingµ′ andsetS N suchthat ⊆ 1. i S,µ′(i) S; ∀ ∈ ∈ 2. i S,u (µ′) u (µ);and i i ∀ ∈ ≥ 3. i S,u (µ′) > u (µ). i i ∃ ∈ Asitturnsout,thecoreofthematchinggameisalwaysnonempty. Another commonly-made assumption is that the value (or in the case of NTU games, the set of achievable payoff vectors) of a coalition is independent of the othercoalitions. Thisisatbestanapproximationformanysituations. Ifthevalue ofa coalition can dependmeaningfullyonwhat othercoalitions form, onehas to take into account the whole coalitional structure when assigning payoffs to the coalitions. Definition12.4.2(Coalitionalgameinpartitionform) Acoalitionalgameinparcoalitionalgame titionformisapair(N,p),where inpartitionform • N isafinitesetofplayers,indexedbyi;and coalitional • passociateseachpartitionπ ofN (alsoknownasacoalitionalstructure)and structure a coalition S π with p(π,S) RS, to be interpreted as the set of payoffs ∈ ⊆ thatS canachieveforitsmembersunderpartitionπ. Yet another important direction is the incorporation of uncertainties into coalitionalgamemodels.Unlikeincomplete-informationgamesinnoncooperativegame theory, where a well-developed theory exists, a universally-accepted theory of coalitional games with uncertainty has yet to emerge. Such a theory would be useful. In many situations, it is natural to suppose that the values to coalitions are not known with certainty. It is also reasonable to assume that the payoffs to UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 12.5 Historyandreferences 407 a coalition could depend on private information held by the agents, about which other agents have only probabilistic information. Some efforts toward modeling coalitionalgamesunderuncertaintyhavebeenmadeintheworkcitedattheendof thechapter;yetmoreworkisstillneededtocreateafullycompletetheory. 12.4.2 Advancedsolutionconcepts There are a number of other solution concepts that we have not discussed in this chapter. One interesting phenomenonin the analysis of coalitional games is that researchersseemtohavequitediverseopinionsastowhichsolutionconceptsmake the most sense. This is perhaps natural since different conflicts call for different notions of stability and fairness. Some other important solution concepts in the literature include stable sets, the bargaining set, and the kernel. Some of these, forexample,attempttocapturetheintuitionthatshouldacoalitiondeviatedueto theviolationofsomestability property,thatitshoulddeviatetoa stablecoalition itself. However,interestingly,mostsolutionconceptstodatefocusondividingthepayoff of the grand coalition. While this appears quite reasonable when the core of the gameis nonempty, whenthe core is empty, onemight expectcoalitionsother thanthe grandcoalitionto form. This problemis worsewhenthe gameis notsuperadditive;inthiscase,itispossiblethatsomepartitioningofthecoalitionscould achievestrictlyhighertotalpayoffsthanthegrandcoalition. Itisthereforeimportant to considersolution concepts that allow payoffs to depend on the coalitional structure. Finally, computingtheagents’payoffsis oftenonlypartofthe problem. Itcan also be important to find out what coalitions would and should form, and how agentsshouldcoordinatetheiractions. Thishasbeenanareatraditionallyignored in the literature, perhaps due to a focus on the abstract properties of coalitional games. For certain applications, the coalitional formation process cannot be ignored. Indeed,muchworkin artificialintelligencehasbeendevotedto analyzing theprocessofcoalitionformation. Byapplyingcoalitionalgametheorytoanalyze such process, it may be possible to learn more about the strategic properties of differentcoordinationmechanismsinthepresenceofselfishagents. 12.5 Historyandreferences Intheearlydaysofgametheoryresearch,coalitionalgametheorywasamajorfocus,particularlyofeconomists. Thisispartlybecausethetheoryiscloselyrelated toequilibriumanalysisandseeminglybridgesagapbetweengametheoryandeconomics. Von NeumannandMorgenstern, for example,devotedmore thanhalfof their classic text, Theory of Games and Economic Behavior [von Neumann and Morgenstern, 1944],to an analysisofcoalitionalgames. A large bodyoftheoretical work on coalitionalgame theoryhas focusedon the developmentof solution concepts, possibly in an attempt to explain the behaviorof large systems such as Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 408 12 TeamsofSelfishAgents:AnIntroductiontoCoalitionalGameTheory markets. Solidexplanationsofthemanysolutionconceptsandtheirpropertiesare givenbyOsborneandRubinstein[1994]andPelegandSudhölter[2003]. Someexamplesusedinthischapterhaveappearedinothercontexts.Theconnectionbetweenmatchingandcoalitionalgametheoryhasbeenexploredbyanumber ofeconomistsandsurveyedintheworksofAlRoth(seee.g.,RothandSotomayor [1990]).TheairportgameandtheminimumspanningtreegameappearedinPeleg and Sudhölter [2003]. The connection between auctions