12.2.3 Refiningthecore: ǫ-core, leastcore,andnucleolus We now consider some refinements of the core that address its possible nonexistenceandnonuniqueness. Wefirstdefineaconceptanalogoustoǫ-equilibrium(definedinSection3.4.7). ǫ-core Definition12.2.16(ǫ-core) Apayoffvectorxisintheǫ-coreofacoalitionalgame (N,v)ifandonlyif S N, x v(S) ǫ. (12.3) i ∀ ⊂ ≥ − i∈S X OneinterpretationoftheǫinEquation(12.3)isthatthereisanǫcostfordeviatingfromthegrandcoalition. Asaresult,evenifthepayoffstoagentsincoalition UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 12.2 Analyzingcoalitionalgames 395 S arelessthantheirworth,v(S),aslongasthedifferenceislessthanǫ,thepayoff vectorisstillstable. Mathematically speaking, there is no requirementthat ǫ has to be nonnegative; whenǫisnegative, ǫcanbeseenasa“bonus”forforminganewcoalition. Thus, − whenǫisnegative,apayoffvectorthatisintheǫ-coreismorestablethanavector that is only in the core. Note that in Equation (12.3), constraints are quantified onlyovercoalitionsthatarestrictsubsetsofN. Sincepayoffvectorsareefficient, x = v(N)isalwaystrue. Thus,addingaconstraintforN isunnecessary: i∈N i itwouldbetriviallysatisfiedwhenǫisnonnegativeandviolatedwhenǫisnegative, P andwouldshednolightonwhetherthegrandcoalitionwouldform. Note that just like the core, for a given ǫ, the ǫ-core of a game may be empty. On the other hand, it is easy to see that given a game, there always exists some ǫ that is sufficiently large to ensure that the ǫ-core of the game is nonempty. A naturalproblem,therefore,istofindthesmallestǫforwhichtheǫ-coreofagame isnonempty. Thisleadstoasolutionconceptcalledtheleastcore. leastcore Definition12.2.17(Leastcore) A payoff vector x is in the least core of a coalitionalgame(N,v)ifandonlyifxisthesolutiontothefollowinglinearprogram. minimize ǫ subjectto x v(S) ǫ S N i ≥ − ∀ ⊂ i∈S X TheobjectivefunctioninthelinearprogramgiveninDefinition12.2.17is nonpositive if and only if the core of the game is nonempty. As explained, for sufficientlylargeǫ,theconstraintsinthelinearprogramcanalwaysbesatisfied;hence, the least core of a game is never empty. Thus the least core can be considered a generalizationofthecore. Ontheotherhand,theleastcoredoesnotcontainevery payoff vector in the core when the core is nonempty; rather, it consists only of payoffvectorsthatwillgiveallcoalitionsaslittle incentiveto deviateaspossible. Inthissense,theleastcoreisalsoarefinementofthecore. Althoughitrefinesthecore,theleastcoredoesnotuniquelydetermineapayoff vector to a game: it can still return a set of payoff vectors. The intuition is that beyond those coalitions for which the constraints in the linear program are tight (i.e.,arerealizedasequality),thereareextradegreesoffreedomavailablefordistributingthepayoffstoagentsintheothercoalitions. Basedonthisintuition,itis easy to construct counterexamples to the uniqueness of the least core. (Can you findone?) It seems that we could further strengthen the least core by requiring that coalitions whoseconstraintsare slack (i.e., nottight)in the linearprogrammust beas stableaspossible. Toformalizethisidea,letǫ betheobjectivevalueofthelinear 1 program,andlet bethesetofcoalitionscorrespondingtothesetofconstraints 1 S Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 396 12 TeamsofSelfishAgents:AnIntroductiontoCoalitionalGameTheory thataretightintheoptimalsolution. Wenowoptimize. minimize ǫ subjectto x = v(S) ǫ S i 1 1 − ∀ ∈ S i∈S X x v(S) ǫ S 2N i 1 ≥ − ∀ ∈ \S i∈S X But whatif some constraints remain slack evenin the solution to the new optimizationproblem? Wecansimplysolveyetanotheroptimizationproblemtomake theremainingcoalitionsasstableaspossible. Repeatingthisprocedure,thepayoff vectorgetsprogressivelytightened.Sinceateachstep,atleastonemoreconstraint will be made tight, this process must terminate. Indeed, a careful argument that countsthenumberofdimensionsshowsthatinfacttheprocessmustterminateafteratmost N steps. Attheendofthisprocess,wereachauniquepayoffvector, | | knownasthenucleolus. nucleolus Definition12.2.18(Nucleolus) A payoff vector x is in the nucleolus of a coalitional game (N,v) if it is the solution to the series of optimization programs O ,O ,...,O ,wheretheseprogramsaredefinedrecursivelyasfollows. 1 2 |N| minimize ǫ (O ) 1  subjectto x i v(S) ǫ S N ≥ − ∀ ⊂  i∈S X  minimize ǫ subjectto x = v(S) ǫ S i 0 1 − ∀ ∈ S     X i∈S (O )      . . . i      x = v(S) ǫ S i i−1 i−1 i−2 − ∀ ∈S \S i∈S  X    x v(S) ǫ S 2N  i i−1  ≥ − ∀ ∈ \S