whereπ(S)denotesthesetofallpartitionsofS. Note that for some superadditive games, the representation may still require space exponential in the number of agents. This is unavoidable as the space of Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 402 12 TeamsofSelfishAgents:AnIntroductiontoCoalitionalGameTheory coalitionalgamesofnagents,whentreatedasavectorspace,isof2n 1dimen- − sions. However,formanygames,thespacerequiredismuchless. Wecanevaluatetheusefulnessofarepresentationbasedonanumberofcriteria. Onecriterioniswhethertherepresentationexposesthestructureoftheunderlying game to facilitate efficient computation. For example, is it easy to find out the value of a given coalition? Unfortunately, the answer is negativefor the synergy representation. Proposition12.3.12 It is NP-complete to determine the value of some coalitions foracoalitionalgamespecifiedwiththesynergyrepresentation.Inparticular,itis NP-completetodeterminethevalueofthegrandcoalition. Intuitively,thereasonwhyitishardtodeterminethevalueofacoalitionunder thesynergyrepresentationisthatweneedtopickthebestpartitioningforacoalition,forwhichthereisanumberofchoicesexponentialinthesizeofthecoalition. Asa result, itis (co)NP-hardtodeterminewhetheragivenpayoffvectoris inthe core, and it is NP-hard to compute the Shapley value of the game, as solution to eitherproblemcanbe usedto computethe valueofthe grandcoalition. It is also (co)NP-hardtodeterminewhetherthecoreisemptyornot,whichfollowsfroma reductionfromExactCoverby3Sets. Interestingly, if the value of the grand coalition is given as part of the input of theproblem,thentheemptinessofthecorecanbedeterminedefficiently. Theorem12.3.13 Given a superadditive coalitional game specified with the synergyrepresentationandthevalueofthegrandcoalition,wecandetermineinpolynomialtimewhetherthecoreofthegameisemptyornot. The proof is achieved by showing that a payoff in the core can be found by solvingalinearprogram. 12.3.4 Adecompositionapproach: multi-issuerepresentation The central idea behind the multi-issue representation, a representation based on game decomposition, is that of addition of games (in the sense of Axiom 12.2.6 (Additivity)intheaxiomatizationoftheShapleyvalue). Formally,themulti-issue representationisgivenasfollows. multi-issue Definition12.3.14(Multi-issuerepresentation) Amulti-issuerepresentationiscomrepresentation posed of a collection of coalitional games, each known as an issue, (N ,v ), 1 1 (N ,v ), ..., (N ,v ), which together constitute the coalitional game (N,v), 2 2 k k where • N = N N N ;and 1 2 k ∪ ∪···∪ • ForeachcoalitionS N,v(S) = k v (S N ). ⊆ i=1 i ∩ i P UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 12.3 Compactrepresentationsofcoalitionalgames 403 Intuitively, each issue of the game involves some set of agents, which may be partially or completely overlappingwith the set of agents for another issue. The valueofacoalitioninthegameisthesumofthevaluesachievedbythecoalitionin eachissue. Forexample,consideraroboticsdomainwheretherearecertaintasks tobeperformed,eachofwhichcanbeperformedbyacertainsubsetofagroupof robots. Wecanthentreateachofthesetasksasanissueandmodelthesystemasa coalitionalgamewherethevalueofanygroupofrobotsisthesumofthevaluesof thetasksthegroupcanperform. Clearly, the multi-issue representation can be used to represent any coalitional game,aswecanalwayschoosetotreatthecoalitionalgameasasinglebigissue. Fromthecomputationalstandpoint,duetoitscloserelationshiptotheadditivity axiom, it is perhaps not surprising that the Shapley value of a coalitional game specifiedinthemulti-issuerepresentationcanbefoundefficiently. Proposition12.3.15 The Shapley value of a coalitional game specified with the multi-issuerepresentationcanbecomputedintimelinearinthesizeoftheinput. This is not hard to see. First, note that the Shapley value of a game can be computed in linear time when the input is given by the enumeration of the value function. This is because the direct approachof computingthe Shapley value requiressummingovereachcoalitiononce,andsothetotalnumberofoperationsis linearinthesizeoftheenumeration. Observethatthefactorialscanbecomputed quicklyto anydesired accuracyusing the Stirling approximation. Then, to prove the proposition, we must simply use the fact that the Shapley value satisfies the additivityaxiom. On the other hand, the multi-issue representation does not help with computational questions about the core. For example, it is coNP-hard to determine if a givenpayoffvectorbelongstothecorewhenthegameisspecifiedwiththemultiissuerepresentation. 12.3.5 Alogicalapproach: marginalcontributionnets Marginalcontributionnets(MC-nets)contstitutearepresentationschemeforcoalitional games that attempts to harness the power of boolean logic to reduce the space required for specifying a coalitional game. The basic idea is to treat each agentinagameasabooleanvariableandtotreatthe(binary)characteristicvector ofacoalitionasatruthassignment. Thistruthassignmentcanbeusedtoevaluate whetherabooleanformulaissatisfied,whichcaninturnbeusedtodeterminethe valueofacoalition. marginal Definition12.3.16(MC-netrepresentation) AnMC-netconsistsofasetofrules. contributionnet Eachrulehasthesyntacticform(Pattern,weight),wherethepatternisgivenbya (MC-net) booleanformulaandtheweightisarealvalue. TheMC-net(p ,w ),(p ,w ),...,(p ,w )specifiesacoalitionalgame(N,v), 1 1 2 2 k k whereN isthesetofpropositionsthatappearinthepatternsandthevaluefunction Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 404 12 TeamsofSelfishAgents:AnIntroductiontoCoalitionalGameTheory isgivenby k v(S) = p (eS)w , i i i=1 X