ity mass function. The pmf is often referred to as the “distribution”. For probabilityp(x). continuousvariables,p(x)iscalledtheprobabilitydensityfunction(often referred to as a density). To muddy things even further, the cumulative distribution function P(X (cid:54) x) is often also referred to as the “distribution”.Inthischapter,wewillusethenotationX torefertobothunivariate and multivariate random variables, and denote the states by x and x respectively.WesummarizethenomenclatureinTable6.1. Remark. We will be using the expression “probability distribution” not onlyfordiscreteprobabilitymassfunctionsbutalsoforcontinuousprobability density functions, although this is technically incorrect. In line with most machine learning literature, we also rely on context to distinguish thedifferentusesofthephraseprobabilitydistribution. ♦ 6.3 Sum Rule, Product Rule, and Bayes’ Theorem Wethinkofprobabilitytheoryasanextensiontologicalreasoning.Aswe discussed in Section 6.1.1, the rules of probability presented here follow (cid:13)c2019M.P.Deisenroth,A.A.Faisal,C.S.Ong.TobepublishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress. 184 ProbabilityandDistributions naturally from fulfilling the desiderata (Jaynes, 2003, chapter 2). Probabilistic modeling (Section 8.4) provides a principled foundation for designingmachinelearningmethods.Oncewehavedefinedprobabilitydistributions(Section6.2)correspondingtotheuncertaintiesofthedataand our problem, it turns out that there are only two fundamental rules, the sumruleandtheproductrule. Recall from (6.9) that p(x,y) is the joint distribution of the two random variables x,y. The distributions p(x) and p(y) are the correspondingmarginaldistributions,andp(y x)istheconditionaldistributionofy | givenx.Giventhedefinitionsofthemarginalandconditionalprobability for discrete and continuous random variables in Section 6.2, we can now Thesetworules presentthetwofundamentalrulesinprobabilitytheory. arise Thefirstrule,thesumrule,statesthat naturally(Jaynes,  (cid:88) 2003)fromthe  p(x,y) ify isdiscrete  requirementswe  discussedin p(x) = y (cid:90) ∈Y , (6.20) Section6.1.1.   p(x,y)dy ify iscontinuous  sumrule Y where are the states of the target space of random variable Y. This Y meansthatwesumout(orintegrateout)thesetofstatesyoftherandom marginalization variable Y. The sum rule is also known as the marginalization property. property The sum rule relates the joint distribution to a marginal distribution. In general,whenthejointdistributioncontainsmorethantworandomvariables, the sum rule can be applied to any subset of the random variables, resulting in a marginal distribution of potentially more than one random variable.Moreconcretely,ifx = [x ,...,x ](cid:62),weobtainthemarginal 1 D (cid:90) p(x ) = p(x ,...,x )dx (6.21) i 1 D \i by repeated application of the sum rule where we integrate/sum out all random variables except x , which is indicated by i, which reads “all i \ excepti.” Remark. Many of the computational challenges of probabilistic modeling areduetotheapplicationofthesumrule.Whentherearemanyvariables or discrete variables with many states, the sum rule boils down to performingahigh-dimensionalsumorintegral.Performinghigh-dimensional sumsorintegralsisgenerallycomputationallyhard,inthesensethatthere isnoknownpolynomial-timealgorithmtocalculatethemexactly. ♦ productrule Thesecondrule,knownastheproductrule,relatesthejointdistribution totheconditionaldistributionvia p(x,y) = p(y x)p(x). (6.22) | The product rule can be interpreted as the fact that every joint distribution of two random variables can be factorized (written as a product) Draft(2019-12-11)of“MathematicsforMachineLearning”.Feedback:https://mml-book.com. 6.3 SumRule,ProductRule,andBayes’Theorem 185 of two other distributions. The two factors are the marginal distribution of the first random variable p(x), and the conditional distribution of the second random variable given the first p(y x). Since the ordering | of random variables is arbitrary in p(x,y), the product rule also implies p(x,y) = p(x y)p(y). To be precise, (6.22) is expressed in terms of the | probability mass functions for discrete random variables. For continuous randomvariables,theproductruleisexpressedintermsoftheprobability densityfunctions(Section6.2.3). In machine learning and Bayesian statistics, we are often interested in makinginferencesofunobserved(latent)randomvariablesgiventhatwe haveobservedotherrandomvariables.Letusassumewehavesomeprior knowledge p(x) about an unobserved random variable x and some relationship p(y x) between x and a second random variable y, which we |