salary of a person, or categorical labels, such as letters of the alphabet when doing handwriting recognition. Discretedistributionsarealsooftenusedtoconstructprobabilisticmodels thatcombineafinitenumberofcontinuousdistributions(Chapter11). 6.2.2 Continuous Probabilities Weconsiderreal-valuedrandomvariablesinthissection,i.e.,weconsider targetspacesthatareintervalsofthereallineR.Inthisbook,wepretend thatwecanperformoperationsonrealrandomvariablesasifwehavediscrete probability spaces with finite states. However, this simplification is notprecisefortwosituations:whenwerepeatsomethinginfinitelyoften, and when we want to draw a point from an interval. The first situation arises when we discuss generalization errors in machine learning (Chapter 8). The second situation arises when we want to discuss continuous distributions, such as the Gaussian (Section 6.5). For our purposes, the lackofprecisionallowsforabrieferintroductiontoprobability. Remark. In continuous spaces, there are two additional technicalities, which are counterintuitive. First, the set of all subsets (used to define the event space in Section 6.1) is not well behaved enough. needs A A to be restricted to behave well under set complements, set intersections, and set unions. Second, the size of a set (which in discrete spaces can be obtained by counting the elements) turns out to be tricky. The size of a measure set is called its measure. For example, the cardinality of discrete sets, the length of an interval in R, and the volume of a region in Rd are all measures. Sets that behave well under set operations and additionally have Borelσ-algebra a topology are called a Borel σ-algebra. Betancourt details a careful constructionofprobabilityspacesfromsettheorywithoutbeingboggeddown in technicalities; see https://tinyurl.com/yb3t6mfd. For a more precise construction, we refer to Billingsley (1995) and Jacod and Protter (2004). In this book, we consider real-valued random variables with their corDraft(2019-12-11)of“MathematicsforMachineLearning”.Feedback:https://mml-book.com. 6.2 DiscreteandContinuousProbabilities 181 respondingBorelσ-algebra.Weconsiderrandomvariableswithvaluesin RD tobeavectorofreal-valuedrandomvariables. ♦ Definition 6.1 (Probability Density Function). A function f : RD R is → calledaprobabilitydensityfunction(pdf)if probabilitydensity function 1. x RD : f(x) (cid:62) 0 pdf ∀ ∈ 2. Itsintegralexistsand (cid:90) f(x)dx = 1. (6.15) RD For probability mass functions (pmf) of discrete random variables, the integralin(6.15)isreplacedwithasum(6.12). Observe that the probability density function is any function f that is non-negative and integrates to one. We associate a random variable X withthisfunctionf by (cid:90) b P(a (cid:54) X (cid:54) b) = f(x)dx, (6.16) a where a,b R and x R are outcomes of the continuous random variable X. Sta ∈ tes x RD ∈ are defined analogously by considering a vector of x R. This as ∈ sociation (6.16) is called the law or distribution of the law ∈ randomvariableX. P(X=x)isasetof Remark. Incontrasttodiscreterandomvariables,theprobabilityofacon- measurezero. tinuous random variable X taking a particular value P(X = x) is zero. Thisisliketryingtospecifyanintervalin(6.16)wherea = b. ♦ Definition6.2(CumulativeDistributionFunction). Acumulativedistribu- cumulative tion function (cdf) of a multivariate real-valued random variable X with distributionfunction statesx RD isgivenby ∈ F (x) = P(X (cid:54) x ,...,X (cid:54) x ), (6.17) X 1 1 D D where X = [X ,...,X ](cid:62), x = [x ,...,x ](cid:62), and the right-hand side 1 D 1 D representstheprobabilitythatrandomvariableX takesthevaluesmaller i thanorequaltox . i Therearecdfs, The cdf can be expressed also as the integral of the probability density whichdonothave functionf(x)sothat correspondingpdfs. (cid:90) x1 (cid:90) xD F (x) = f(z ,...,z )dz dz . (6.18) X 1 D 1 D ··· ··· −∞ −∞ Remark. We reiterate that there