universal mathematical rules that apply to plausibility p, up to transformation by an arbitrary monotonic function. Crucially, these rules aretherulesofprobability. Remark. Inmachinelearningandstatistics,therearetwomajorinterpretationsofprobability:theBayesianandfrequentistinterpretations(Bishop, 2006;EfronandHastie,2016).TheBayesianinterpretationusesprobabilitytospecifythedegreeofuncertaintythattheuserhasaboutanevent.It is sometimes referred to as “subjective probability” or “degree of belief”. Thefrequentistinterpretationconsiderstherelativefrequenciesofevents of interest to the total number of events that occurred. The probability of aneventisdefinedastherelativefrequencyoftheeventinthelimitwhen onehasinfinitedata. ♦ Some machine learning texts on probabilistic models use lazy notation andjargon,whichisconfusing.Thistextisnoexception.Multipledistinct concepts are all referred to as “probability distribution”, and the reader has to often disentangle the meaning from the context. One trick to help make sense of probability distributions is to check whether we are trying to model something categorical (a discrete random variable) or something continuous (a continuous random variable). The kinds of questions we tackle in machine learning are closely related to whether we are consideringcategoricalorcontinuousmodels. 6.1.2 Probability and Random Variables There are three distinct ideas that are often confused when discussing probabilities. First is the idea of a probability space, which allows us to quantifytheideaofaprobability.However,wemostlydonotworkdirectly withthisbasicprobabilityspace.Instead,weworkwithrandomvariables (the second idea), which transfers the probability to a more convenient (oftennumerical)space.Thethirdideaistheideaofadistributionorlaw associated with a random variable. We will introduce the first two ideas inthissectionandexpandonthethirdideainSection6.2. ModernprobabilityisbasedonasetofaxiomsproposedbyKolmogorov Draft(2019-12-11)of“MathematicsforMachineLearning”.Feedback:https://mml-book.com. 6.1 ConstructionofaProbabilitySpace 175 (Grinstead and Snell, 1997; Jaynes, 2003) that introduce the three concepts of sample space, event space, and probability measure. The probability space models a real-world process (referred to as an experiment) withrandomoutcomes. The sample space Ω The sample space is the set of all possible outcomes of the experiment, samplespace usually denoted by Ω. For example, two successive coin tosses have a sample space of hh, tt, ht, th , where “h” denotes “heads” and “t” { } denotes“tails”. The event space A The event space is the space of potential results of the experiment. A eventspace subset A of the sample space Ω is in the event space if at the end A oftheexperimentwecanobservewhetheraparticularoutcomeω Ω ∈ is in A. The event space is obtained by considering the collection of A subsets of Ω, and for discrete probability distributions (Section 6.2.1) isoftenthepowersetofΩ. A The probability P WitheacheventA ,weassociateanumberP(A)thatmeasuresthe ∈ A probability or degree of belief that the event will occur. P(A) is called theprobability ofA. probability The probability of a single event must lie in the interval [0,1], and the total probability over all outcomes in the sample space Ω must be 1, i.e., P(Ω) = 1.Givenaprobabilityspace(Ω, ,P),wewanttouseittomodel A somereal-worldphenomenon.Inmachinelearning,weoftenavoidexplicitlyreferringtotheprobabilityspace,butinsteadrefertoprobabilitieson quantities of interest, which we denote by . In this book, we refer to T T as the target space and refer to elements of as states. We introduce a targetspace T functionX : Ω thattakesanelementofΩ(anoutcome)andreturns → T aparticularquantityofinterestx,avaluein .Thisassociation/mapping T fromΩto iscalledarandomvariable.Forexample,inthecaseoftossing randomvariable T two coins and counting the number of heads, a random variable X maps to the three possible outcomes: X(hh) = 2, X(ht) = 1, X(th) = 1, and X(tt) = 0.Inthisparticularcase, = 0,1,2 ,anditistheprobabilities T { } onelementsof thatweareinterestedin.ForafinitesamplespaceΩand Thename“random T finite , the function corresponding to a random variable is essentially a variable”isagreat lookup T table. For any subset S , we associate