P (S) = P(X S) = P(X−1(S)) = P( ω Ω : X(ω) S ). (6.8) X ∈ { ∈ ∈ } Theleft-handsideof(6.8)istheprobabilityofthesetofpossibleoutcomes (e.g.,numberof$=1)thatweareinterestedin.Viatherandomvariable X, which maps states to outcomes, we see in the right-hand side of (6.8) thatthisistheprobabilityofthesetofstates(inΩ)thathavetheproperty (e.g., $£, £$). We say that a random variable X is distributed according to a particular probability distribution P , which defines the probability X mapping between the event and the probability of the outcome of the randomvariable.Inotherwords,thefunctionP orequivalentlyP X−1 X ◦ isthelawordistributionofrandomvariableX. law distribution Remark. Thetargetspace,thatis,therange oftherandomvariableX, T isusedtoindicatethekindofprobabilityspace,i.e.,a randomvariable. T When is finite or countably infinite, this is called a discrete random T variable(Section6.2.1).Forcontinuousrandomvariables(Section6.2.2), weonlyconsider = Ror = RD. T T ♦ 6.1.3 Statistics Probabilitytheoryandstatisticsareoftenpresentedtogether,buttheyconcerndifferentaspectsofuncertainty.Onewayofcontrastingthemisbythe kinds of problemsthat are considered. Using probability,we can consider a model of some process, where the underlying uncertainty is captured by random variables, and we use the rules of probability to derive what happens. In statistics, we observe that something has happened and try tofigureouttheunderlyingprocessthatexplainstheobservations.Inthis sense, machine learning is close to statistics in its goals to construct a modelthatadequatelyrepresentstheprocessthatgeneratedthedata.We can use the rules of probability to obtain a “best-fitting” model for some data. Another aspect of machine learning systems is that we are interested in generalization error (see Chapter 8). This means that we are actually interested in the performance of our system on instances that we will observe in future, which are not identical to the instances that we have (cid:13)c2019M.P.Deisenroth,A.A.Faisal,C.S.Ong.TobepublishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress. 178 ProbabilityandDistributions seen so far. This analysis of future performance relies on probability and statistics, most of which is beyond what will be presented in this chapter. The interested reader is encouraged to look at the books by Boucheron etal.(2013)andShalev-ShwartzandBen-David(2014).Wewillseemore aboutstatisticsinChapter8. 6.2 Discrete and Continuous Probabilities Let us focus our attention on ways to describe the probability of an event asintroducedinSection6.1.Dependingonwhetherthetargetspaceisdiscrete or continuous, the natural way to refer to distributions is different. When the target space is discrete, we can specify the probability that a T randomvariableX takesaparticularvaluex ,denotedasP(X = x). ∈ T The expression P(X = x) for a discrete random variable X is known as probabilitymass theprobabilitymassfunction.Whenthetargetspace iscontinuous,e.g., function thereallineR,itismorenaturaltospecifytheprob T abilitythatarandom variable X is in an interval, denoted by P(a (cid:54) X (cid:54) b) for a < b. By convention, we specify the probability that a random variable X is less than aparticularvaluex,denotedbyP(X (cid:54) x).TheexpressionP(X (cid:54) x)for cumulative a continuous random variable X is known as the cumulative distribution distributionfunction function. We will discuss continuous random variables in Section 6.2.2. We will revisit the nomenclature and contrast discrete and continuous randomvariablesinSection6.2.3. univariate Remark. Wewillusethephraseunivariatedistributiontorefertodistributions of a single random variable (whose states are denoted by non-bold x). We will refer to distributions of more than one random variable as multivariate multivariate distributions, and will usually consider a vector of random variables(whosestatesaredenotedbyboldx). ♦ 6.2.1 Discrete Probabilities When the target space is discrete, we can imagine the probability distribution of multiple random variables as filling out a (multidimensional) array of numbers. Figure 6.2 shows an example. The target space of the joint