the Dutch auction this is something of an optical illusion). sealed-bid Thefamilyofsealed-bidauctions,probablythebestknownafterEnglishauctions, auction is different. In this case, each agent submits to the auctioneer a secret, “sealed” bid for the good that is not accessible to any of the other agents. The agent with thehighestbidmustpurchasethegood,butthepriceatwhichhedoessodepends on the type of sealed-bid auction. In a first-price sealed-bid auction (or simply first-price first-price auction) the winning agent pays an amount equal to his own bid. In auction a second-price auction he pays an amount equal to the next highest bid (i.e., the highestrejected bid). The second-priceauction is also called the Vickrey auction. second-price Ingeneral,inakth-priceauctionthewinningagentpurchasesthegoodforaprice auction equaltothekth highestbid. kth-priceauction Auctionsasstructurednegotiations While it is useful to have reviewed the best-known auction types, this list is far from exhaustive. For example, considerthe following auction, consisting ofa sequence of sealed bids. In the first round the lowest bidder drops out; his bid is announcedandbecomestheminimumbidinthenextroundfortheremainingbidders. This process continues until only one bidderremains; this bidderwins and paystheminimumbidinthefinalround. Thisauction,calledtheeliminationaucelimination tion, is differentfrom the auctions describedearlier, and yet makes perfect sense. auction Or considera procurementreverse auction, in which an initial sealed-bidauction is conducted among the interested suppliers, and then a reverse English auction is conductedamongthe three cheapestsuppliers(the “finalists”)to determinethe ultimatesupplier. Thistwo-phaseauctionisnotuncommoninindustry. Indeed,ataxonomicalperspectiveobscurestheelementscommontoallauctions, andthustheinfinitenatureofthespace. Whatisanauction? Atheartitissimply a structured framework for negotiation. Each such negotiation has certain rules, whichcanbebrokendownintothreecategories. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 332 11 ProtocolsforMultiagentResourceAllocation:Auctions 1. Bidding rules: How are offers made (by whom, when, what can their content be)? 2. Clearingrules: Whendotradesoccur,orwhatarethosetrades(whogetswhich goods,andwhatmoneychangeshands)asafunctionofthebidding? 3. Informationrules: Whoknowswhatwhenaboutthestateofnegotiation? The different auctions we have discussed make different choices along these three axes, but it is clear that other rules can be instituted. Indeed, when viewed this way, it becomesclearthatwhatseemlike threeradically differentcommerce mechanisms—the hushed purchase of a Matisse at a high-end auction house in London,themundanepurchaseofgroceriesatthelocalsupermarket,andtheoneon-one horse trading in a Middle Eastern souk—are simply auctions that make differentchoicesalongthesethreedimensions. 11.1.2 AuctionsasBayesianmechanisms Wenowmovetoamoreformalinvestigationofsingle-goodauctions. Ourstarting point is the observation that choosing an auction that has various desired properties is a mechanism design problem. Ordinarily we assume that agents’ utility functionsinanauctionsettingarequasilinear. Todefineanauctionasaquasilinear mechanism(seeDefinition10.3.2)wemustidentifythefollowingelements: • setofagentsN, • setofoutcomesO = X Rn, × • setofactionsA availabletoeachagenti N, i ∈ • choice function x that selects one of the outcomes given the agents’ actions, and • paymentfunction℘thatdetermineswhateachagentmustpaygivenallagents’ actions. In an auction, the possible outcomesO consistof all possible ways to allocate thegood—thesetofchoicesX—andallpossiblewaysofchargingtheagents.The agents’actionswillvaryindifferentauctiontypes. Inasealed-bidauction,eachset A isanintervalfromR(i.e., anagent’sactionisthedeclarationofabidamount i betweensomeminimumandmaximumvalue). AJapaneseauctionisanextensiveform game with chance nodesimperfect information (see Section 5.2), and so in this case the action space is the space of all policies the agent could follow (i.e., alldifferentwaysofactingconditionedondifferentobservedhistories). Asin all mechanismdesignproblems,thechoiceandpaymentfunctionsx and℘dependon theobjectiveoftheauction,suchasachievinganefficientallocationormaximizing revenue. UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 11.1 Single-goodauctions 333 A Bayesian game with quasilinear preferences includes two more ingredients thatweneedtospecify:thecommonpriorandtheagents’utilityfunctions.Wewill saymoreaboutthe commonprior—the distributionfrom whichthe agents’types are drawn—later; here, just note that the definition of an auction as a Bayesian game is incomplete without it. Considering the agents’ utility functions, first note that the quasilinearity assumption (see Definition 10.3.1) allows us to write u (o,θ ) = u (x,θ ) f (p ). Thefunctionf indicatestheagent’sriskattitude, i i i i i i i − as discussedin Section 10.3.1.