will not discuss these modeling UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 11.1 Single-goodauctions 343 issues here; interested readers should consult the notes at the end of the chapter. Instead,simplyassumethatthebiddersholdsymmetricbeliefs,eachbelievingthat theprobabilitythattheauctionwillinvolvej biddersisp(j). Because the dominant strategy for bidding in second-price auctions does not dependon the numberof bidders in the auction, it still holds in this environment. The same is not true of first-price auctions, however. Let F(v) be a cumulative probability density function indicating the probability that a bidder’s valuation is greater than or equal to v, and let be(v ,j) be the equilibrium bid amount in a i (classical) first-price auction with j bidders, for a bidder with valuation j. Then the symmetric equilibrium of a first-price auction with an uncertain number of biddersis ∞ Fj−1(v )p(j) b(v ) = i be(v ,j). i ∞ Fk−1(v )p(k) i j=2 k=2 i X Interestingly, because the proPof of the revenue equivalence theorem does not dependonthenumberofagents,thattheoremappliesdirectlytothisenvironment. Thus,inthisstochasticenvironmenttheseller’srevenueisthesamewhensheruns afirst-priceandasecond-priceauction. Therevenueequivalencetheoremcanthus beusedtoderivethestrategyabove. 11.1.8 “Optimal”(revenue-maximizing) auctions Sofarinourtheoreticalanalysiswehaveconsideredonlythoseauctionsinwhich the good is allocated to the high bidder and the seller imposes no reserve price. These assumptions make sense, especially when the seller wants to ensure economic efficiency—thatis, that the bidderwho values the goodmost gets it. However,wemightinsteadbelievethatthesellerdoesnotcarewhogetsthegood,but rather seeks to maximize her expected revenue. In order to do so, she may be willing to risk failing to sell the goodevenwhenthere is an interestedbuyer,and furthermore might be willing sometimes to sell to a buyer who did not make the highest bid, in order to encourage high bidders to bid more aggressively. Mechanisms that are designedto maximize the seller’s expectedrevenueare knownas optimalauction optimalauctions. Consideran IPV setting where bidders are risk neutral and each bidderi’s valuation is drawn from some strictly increasing cumulative density function F (v), i having probability density function f (v). Note that we allow for the possibility i that F = F : bidders’ valuations can come from different distributions. Such i j 6 asymmetric interactions are called asymmetric auctions. We do assume that the seller knows auction thedistributionfromwhicheachindividualbidder’svaluationisdrawnandhence isabletodistinguishstrongbiddersfromweakbidders. virtualvaluation Definebidderi’svirtualvaluationas 1 F (v ) ψ (v ) = v − i i , i i i − f (v ) i i Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 344 11 ProtocolsforMultiagentResourceAllocation:Auctions and assumethat the valuationdistribution is such that each ψ is increasingin v . i i Also define an agent-specificreserveprice r∗ as the valuefor whichψ (r∗) = 0. i i i The optimal (single-good) auction is a sealed-bid auction in which every agent is asked to declare his true valuation. These declarations are used to compute a virtual(declared)valuationforeachagent. Thegoodis soldto theagentiwhose virtual valuation ψ (vˆ) is the highest, as long as this value is positive (i.e., the i i agent’sdeclaredvaluationv exceedshisreservepricer∗). Ifeveryagent’svirtual i i valuationis negative,the sellerkeepsthe goodandachievesa revenueofzero. If thegoodissold,thewinningagentiischargedthesmallestvaluationthathecould have declared while still remaining the winner: inf v∗ : ψ (v∗) 0and j = { i i i ≥ ∀ 6 i, ψ (v∗) ψ (vˆ ) . i i ≥ j j } Howwouldbiddersbehavein thisauction? Notethatitcanbeunderstoodasa second-priceauctionwithareserveprice,heldinvirtualvaluationspaceratherthan inthespaceofactualvaluations. However,sinceneitherthereservepricesnorthe transformationbetweenactualandvirtualvaluationsdependsontheagent’sdeclaration, the proof that a second-priceauction is dominant-strategytruthful applies hereaswell,andhencetheoptimalauctionremainsstrategy-proof. We