in both mechanisms. Thus, i’s ex i anteexpectedpaymentisalsothesameinbothmechanisms. Sincethisistrue foralli,theauctioneer’sexpectedrevenueisalsothesameinbothmechanisms. Thus,whenbiddersareriskneutralandhaveindependentprivatevaluations,all theauctionswehavespokenaboutsofar—English,Japanese,Dutch,andallsealedbid auctionprotocols—arerevenueequivalent. The revenueequivalencetheorem isusefulbeyondtellingtheauctioneerthatitdoesnotmuchmatterwhichauction sheholds,however. Itisalsoapowerfulanalytictool. Inparticular,wecanmake useofthistheoremtoidentifyequilibriumbiddingstrategiesforauctionsthatmeet thetheorem’sconditions. For example,let us consideragain the n-bidderfirst-price auction discussedin Theorem 11.1.3. Does this auction satisfy the conditions of the revenue equivalencetheorem? Thesecondconditioniseasytoverify;thefirstisharder,because it speaks about the outcomes of the auction under the equilibrium bidding strategies. Fornow,letusassumethatthefirstconditionissatisfiedaswell. The revenueequivalencetheorem onlyhelps us, of course, if we use it to compare the revenue from a first-price auction with that of another auction that we alreadyunderstand. The second-priceauctionservesnicely in this latterrole: we already know its equilibrium strategy, and it meets the conditions of the theorem. Weknowfromtheproofthatabidderofthesametypewillmakethesameexpected paymentin both auctions. In both of the auctions we are considering, a bidder’s paymentiszerounlesshewins. Thusabidder’sexpectedpaymentconditionalon beingthewinnerofafirst-priceauctionmustbethesameashisexpectedpayment conditional on being the winner of a second-price auction. Since the first-price auction is efficient, we can observe that under the symmetric equilibrium agents willbidthisamountallthetime: iftheagentisthehighbidderthenhewillmake therightexpectedpayment,andifheisnot,hisbidamountwillnotmatter. We must now find an expression for the expected value of the second-highest valuation, given that bidder i has the highest valuation. It is helpful to know the orderstatistic formulaforthekth orderstatistic,inthiscaseofdrawsfromtheuniformdistribution. Thekth orderstatisticofadistributionisaformulafortheexpectedvalueof thekth-largestofndraws. FornIIDdrawsfrom[0,v ],thekth orderstatisticis max n+1 k − v . (11.10) n+1 max If bidder i’s valuation v is the highest, then there are n 1 other valuations i − drawn from the uniform distribution on [0,v ]. Thus, the expected value of the i second-highestvaluationisthefirst-orderstatisticofn 1drawsfrom[0,v ]. Subi − stitutingintoEquation(11.10),wehave (n−1)+1−(1)(v ) = n−1v .Thisconfirms (n−1)+1 i n i the equilibrium strategy from Theorem 11.1.3. It also gives us a suspicion (that turnsouttobecorrect)abouttheequilibriumstrategyforfirst-priceauctionsunder Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 340 11 ProtocolsforMultiagentResourceAllocation:Auctions valuationdistributionsotherthanuniform: eachbidderbidstheexpectationofthe second-highestvaluation,conditionedontheassumptionthathisownvaluationis thehighest. Acaveatmustbegivenabouttherevenueequivalencetheorem:thisresultmakes an“if”statement,notan“ifandonlyif”statement. Thatis,whileitistruethatall auctionssatisfyingthetheorem’sconditionsmustyieldthesameexpectedrevenue, itisnottruethatallstrategiesyieldingthatexpectedrevenueconstituteequilibria. Thus,afterusingtherevenueequivalencetheoremtoidentifyastrategyprofilethat one believes to be an equilibrium, one must then prove that this strategy profile is indeed an equilibrium. This should be done in the standard way, by assuming thatall butone ofthe agents play accordingto the equilibrium and show thatthe equilibriumstrategyisabestresponsefortheremainingagent. Finally, recall that we assumed above that the first-price auction allocates the good to the bidder with the highest valuation. The reason it was reasonable to do this (although we could instead have provedthat the auction has a symmetric, increasingequilibrium)is thatwehavetocheckthestrategyprofilederivedusing therevenueequivalencetheoremanyway.Giventheequilibriumstrategy,itiseasy toconfirmthatthebidderwiththehighestvaluationwillindeedwinthegood. 11.1.6 Riskattitudes One of the key assumptions of the revenue equivalence theorem is that agents are risk neutral. It turns out that many of the auctions we have been discussing cease to be revenue-equivalent when agents’ risk attitudes change. Recall from Section10.3.1thatanagent’sriskattitudecanbeunderstoodasdescribinghispreferencebetweenasurepaymentandagamblewiththesameexpectedvalue. (Riskaverseagentspreferthesurething;risk-neutralagentsareindifferent;risk-seeking agentsprefertogamble.) To illustrate how revenue equivalence breaks down when agents are not riskneutral,consideranauctionenvironmentinvolvingnbidderswithIPVvaluations drawn uniformly from [0,1]. Bidder i, having valuation v , must decide whether i hewouldprefertoengageinafirst-priceauctionorasecond-priceauction.Regardlessofwhichauctionhechooses(presumingthathe,alongwiththeotherbidders, follows the chosen auction’s equilibrium strategy), i knows that he will gain positive utility only if he has the highestutility. In the case ofthe first-price auction, i will always gain 1v when he has the highest valuation. In the case of having n i the highest valuationin a second-priceauction i’s expected gain will be 1v , but n i becausehewillpaythesecond-highestactualbid,theamountofi’sgainwillvary based on the other bidders’ valuations. Thus, in choosing between the first-price andsecond-priceauctionsandconditioningonthebeliefthathewillhavethehighest valuation, i is presented with the