Beforemovingon,wefinallyoffersomecomputationalcaveatstotherevelation principle. Observethatthe generaleffectofconstructinga revelationmechanism is to push an additional computationalburden onto the mechanism, as is implicit in Figure 10.2b. There are many settings in which agents’ equilibrium strategies are computationally difficult to determine. When this is the case, the additional burdenabsorbedbythemechanismmaybeconsiderable. Furthermore,therevelation mechanismforces the agents to revealtheir types completely. There may be settingsinwhichagentsarenotwillingtocompromisetheirprivacytothisdegree. (Observethattheoriginalmechanismmayrequirethemtorevealmuchlessinformation.) Finally, evenifnotobjectionableonprivacygrounds,thisfullrevelation cansometimesplaceanunreasonableburdenonthecommunicationchannel. For allthesereasons,inpracticalsettingsonemustapplytherevelationprinciplewith caution. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 280 10 ProtocolsforStrategicAgents:MechanismDesign 10.2.3 Impossibilityofgeneral,dominant-strategy implementation We now askwhatsocialchoicefunctionscan be implementedin dominantstrategies. Giventherevelationprinciple,wecanrestrictourattentiontotruthfulmechanisms. Thefirstanswerisdisappointing. Theorem10.2.6(Gibbard–Satterthwaite) Consider any social choice function C ofN andO. If: 1. O 3(thereareatleastthreeoutcomes); | |≥ 2. C is onto; that is, for every o O there is a preferenceprofile [ ] such that ∈ ≻ C([ ])= o(thispropertyissometimesalsocalledcitizensovereignty);and ≻ 3. C isdominant-strategytruthful, thenC isdictatorial. If Theorem 10.2.6 is reminiscent of the Muller–Satterthwaite theorem (Theorem 9.4.8) this is no accident, since Theorem 10.2.6 is implied by that theorem as a corollary. Note that this negative result is specific to dominant-strategy implementation. It does not hold for the weaker concepts of Nash or Bayes–Nash equilibriumimplementation. 10.3 Quasilinearpreferences Ifwe are to designa dominant-strategytruthfulmechanismthat is notdictatorial, wearegoingtohavetorelaxsomeoftheconditionsoftheGibbard–Satterthwaite theorem. First, werelaxtherequirementthatagentsbeabletoexpressanypreferencesandreplaceitwiththerequirementthatagentsbeabletoexpressanypreferencesinalimitedset. Second,werelaxtheconditionthatthemechanismbeonto. Wenowintroduceourlimitedsetofpreferences. Definition10.3.1(Quasilinearutilityfunction) Agentshavequasilinearutilityfuncquasilinear tions (or quasilinear preferences) in an n-player Bayesian game when the set of utilityfunctions outcomesisO = X RnforafinitesetX,andtheutilityofanagentigivenjoint × type θ is given by u (o,θ) = u (x,θ) f (p ), where o = (x,p) is an element i i i i quasilinear of O, u : X Θ R is an arbitra − ry function and f : R R is a strictly preferences i × 7→ i 7→ monotonicallyincreasingfunction. Intuitively,wesplitoutcomesinto twopiecesthatare linearlyrelated. First, X representsafinitesetofnonmonetaryoutcomes,suchastheallocationofanobject to one of the bidders in an auction or the selection of a candidate in an election. Second,p is the(possiblynegative)paymentmadebyagenti to the mechanism, i suchasapaymenttotheauctioneer. What does it mean to assume that agents’preferencesare quasilinear? First, it means that we are in a setting in which the mechanism can choose to charge or UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 10.3 Quasilinearpreferences 281 rewardtheagentsbyanarbitrarymonetaryamount. Second,andmorerestrictive, itmeansthatanagent’sdegreeofpreferencefortheselectionofanychoicex X ∈ is independent from his degree of preference for having to pay the mechanism some amountp R. Thus an agent’s utility for a choice cannot dependon the i ∈ totalamountofmoneythathehas(e.g.,anagentcannotvaluehavingayachtmore if he is rich than if he is poor). Finally, it means that agents care only about the choiceselectedandabouttheirownpayments:inparticular,theydonotcareabout themonetarypaymentsmadeorreceivedbyotheragents. Strictlyspeaking,wehavedefinedquasilinearpreferencesinawaythatfixesthe set of agents. However, we generally consider families of quasilinear problems, for any set of agents. For example, consider a voting game of the sort discussed earlier. You would wantto be able to speak abouta voting problem and a voting solutioninawaythatisnotdependentonthenumberofagents.Sointhefollowing weassumethataquasilinearutilityfunctionisstilldefinedwhenanyoneagentis taken away. In this case the set of nonmonetaryoutcomes must be updated (e.g., in an auction setting the missing agent cannot be the winner), and is denoted by O . Similarly,theutilityfunctionsu andthechoicefunctionC mustbeupdated −i i accordingly. 10.3.1 Riskattitudes Thereis stillonepartofthedefinitionofquasilinearpreferencesthatwehavenot discussed—thefunctionsf . Beforedefiningthem,letusconsideraquestionthat i may at first seem a bit nonsensical. Recall that we have said that p denotes the i amount an agent i has to pay the mechanism. How much does i value a dollar? To make sense of