this question, we must first note that utility is specified in its own units, rather than in units of currency, so we need to perform some kind of conversion.(RecallthediscussionattheendofSection3.1.2.) Indeed,thisconversioncanbeunderstoodasthepurposeoff . However,theconversionisnontrivial i because for most people the value of a dollar depends on the amount of money they start out with in the first place. (For example, if you are broke and starving then a dollar could lead to a substantial increase in your utility; if you are a millionaire,youmightnotbendovertopickupthesamedollarifitwaslyingonthe street.) To makethe samepointin anotherway, considera fairlottery in whicha ticket costs $x and pays off $2x half of the time. Holding your wealth constant, yourwillingness to participate in this lottery would probably dependon x. Most people are willing to play for sufficiently small values of x (say $1), but not for largervalues(say$10,000). However,wehavemodeledagentsasexpectedutility maximizers—how can we express the idea that an agent’s willingness to participateinthislotterycandependonx,whenthelottery’sexpectedvalueisthesame inbothcases? These two examples illustrate that we will often want the f functions to be i riskattitude nonlinear. Thecurvatureoff givesi’s riskattitude, whichwecanunderstandas i thewaythatifeelsaboutlotteriessuchastheonejustdescribed. Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 282 10 ProtocolsforStrategicAgents:MechanismDesign u $ (a)Riskneutrality *+ 0 . / , *0 . / 0 * , . / - * ,- * *+ , u $ (b)Riskneutrality:fairlottery u $ (c)Riskaversion 12 7 5 6 3 17 5 6 1 7 5 6 34 1 34 1 12 3 u $ (d)Riskaversion:fairlottery u $ (e)Riskseeking 89 > < = : 8> < = 8 > < = :; 8 :; 8 89 : u $ (f)Riskseeking:fairlottery Figure10.3: Riskattitudes: riskaversion,riskneutrality,riskseeking,andineach case,utilityfortheoutcomesofafairlottery. UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 10.3 Quasilinearpreferences 283 Ifanagentisimply wantsto maximizehis expectedrevenue,wesay theagent riskneutral is risk neutral. Such an agent has a linear value for money, as illustrated in Figure 10.3a. To see why this is so, consider Figure 10.3b. This figure describes a situation where the agent starts out with an endowment of $k, and must decide whetherornottoparticipateinafairlotterythatawards$k+xhalfthetime,and $k x the other half of the time. From looking at the graph, we can see that − u(k) = 1u(k x)+ 1u(k +x)—the agentisindifferentbetweenparticipating 2 − 2 inthelotteryandnotparticipating. Thisis whatwewouldexpect,asthelottery’s expectedvalueisk,thesameasthevaluefornotparticipating. In contrast,considerthe value-for-moneycurveillustrated in Figure 10.3c. We riskaverse callsuchan agentrisk averse—hehas a sublinearvalueformoney,whichmeans that he prefers a “sure thing” to a risky situation with the same expected value. Consider the same fair lottery described earlier from the point of view of a riskaverseagent,asillustratedinFigure10.3d. Wecanseethatforthisagentu(k) > 1u(k x)+ 1u(k+x)—themarginaldisutilityoflosing$xisgreaterthanthe 2 − 2 marginalutilityofgaining$x,givenaninitialendowmentofk. riskseeking Finally, the oppositeofrisk aversionis risk seeking, illustrated in Figure 10.3e. Such an agent has a superlinear value for money, which means that the agent prefers engaging in lotteries to a sure thing with the same expected value. This is shown in Figure 10.3f. For example, an agentmightpreferto spend $1 to buy aticketthathasa 1 chanceofpayingoff$1,000, ascomparedtokeepingthe 1,000 dollar. Theexamplesabovesuggestthatpeoplemightexhibitdifferentriskattitudesin differentregionsoff . Forexample,apersoncouldberiskseekingforverysmall i amounts of money, risk neutral for moderate amounts and risk averse for large amounts. Nevertheless,inwhatfollowswewillassumethatagentsareriskneutral unless indicated otherwise. The assumption of risk neutrality is made partly for mathematicalconvenience,partlytoavoidmakingan(oftendifficulttojustify)assumptionabouttheparticularshapeofagents’value-for-moneycurves,andpartly becauseriskneutralityisreasonablewhentheamountsofmoneybeingexchanged throughthemechanismaremoderate. Considerableworkintheliteratureextends results such as those presented in this chapter and the next to the case