10 Protocols for Strategic Agents: Mechanism Design As we discussed in the previous chapter, social choice theory is nonstrategic; it takes the preferences of the agents as given, and investigates ways in which they canbe aggregated. Butofcoursethose preferencesare usuallynotknown. What youhave, instead, is thatthe variousagentsdeclaretheirpreferences, whichthey maydo truthfully ornot. Assumingthe agentsare self interested, in generalthey will not reveal their true preferences. Since as a designer you wish to find an optimaloutcomewithrespecttotheagents’truepreferences(e.g.,electingaleader thattrulyreflectstheagents’preferences),optimizingwithrespecttothedeclared preferenceswillnotingeneralachievetheobjective. 10.1 Introduction Mechanism design is a strategic version of social choice theory, which adds the assumptionthatagentswillbehavesoastomaximizetheirindividualpayoffs. For example,inanelectionagentsmaynotvotetheirtruepreference. 10.1.1 Example: strategic voting Consider again our babysitting example. This time, in addition to Will, Liam, and Vic you must also babysit their devious new friend, Ray. Again, you invite each child to select their favorite among the three activities—going to the video arcade(a),playingbasketball(b),andgoingforaleisurelycarride(c). Asbefore, you announce that you will select the activity with the highest number of votes, breakingtiesalphabetically. Considerthecaseinwhichthetruepreferencesofthe kidsareasfollows: Will: b a c ≻ ≻ Liam: b a c ≻ ≻ Vic: a c b ≻ ≻ Ray: c a b ≻ ≻ Will, Liam, and Vic are sweetsouls who always tell youtheir true preferences. Butlittle Ray, he is alwaysfiguring thingsoutandso hegoesthroughthe follow274 10 ProtocolsforStrategicAgents:MechanismDesign ing reasoningprocess. He prefers the mostsedentaryactivity possible (hencehis preference ordering). But he knows his friends well, an in particular he knows which activity each of them will vote for. He thus knows that if he votes for his truepassion—slumpinginthecarforafewhours(c)—hewillendupplayingbasketball(b). Sohevotesforgoingtothearcade(a),ensuringthatthisindeedisthe outcome. IsthereanythingyoucandotopreventsuchmanipulationbylittleRay? mechanism This is where mechanism design, or implementation theory, comes in. Mechadesign nism design is sometimes colloquially called “inverse game theory.” Our discussion of game theory in Chapter 3 was framed as follows: Given an interaction implementation amonga setofagents, howdowe predictorprescribethe courseofaction ofthe theory various agents participating in the interaction? In mechanism design, rather than investigateagivenstrategicinteraction,westartwithcertaindesiredbehaviorson thepartofagentsandaskwhatstrategicinteractionamongtheseagentsmightgive rise to these behaviors. Roughly speaking, from the technical point of view this will translate to the following. We will assume unknown individual preferences, and ask whether we can design a game such that, no matter what the secret preferences of the agents actually are, the equilibrium of the game is guaranteed to haveacertaindesiredpropertyorsetofproperties.1 Mechanismdesignisperhaps the most “computer scientific” part of game theory, since it concerns itself with designingeffectiveprotocolsfordistributedsystems. Thekeydifferencefromthe traditionalworkindistributedsystemsis thatinthecurrentsettingthedistributed elementsarenotnecessarilycooperative,andmustbemotivatedtoplaytheirpart. For this reason one can think of mechanism design as an exercise in “incentive engineering.” 10.1.2 Example: buyingashortestpath Like social choice theory, the scope of mechanism design is broader than voting. auctiontheory The most famous application of mechanism design is auction theory, to which we devote Chapter11. However, mechanismdesign has many otherapplications. ConsiderthetransportationnetworkdepictedinFigure10.1. InSection6.4.5weconsideredaselfishroutingproblemwhereagentsselfishly decide where to send their traffic in a network that responded to congestion in a predictableway. Hereweconsideradifferentproblem. InFigure10.1thenumber next to a given edge is the cost of transporting along that edge, but these costs are the private information of the various shippers that own each edge. The task here is to find the shortest (least-cost) path from S to T; this is hard becausethe shippersmaylie abouttheircosts. Youroneadvantageis thatyouknowthatthey are interested in maximizing their revenue. How