Thus,globalconvergenceisanissue. Forexample, consideringthecommonly-usedoptimizationmethodshill-climbingandsimulated annealing, the former get stuck in local minima while the latter often converge globallyonlyforparametersettingsthatyieldanimpracticallylongrunningtime. When global convergence is required, a common choice is to turn to the class simplicial of simplicial subdivision algorithms. Before describing these algorithms we will subdivision revisit some properties of the Nash equilibrium. Recall from the Nash existence theorem(Theorem3.3.22)thatNashequilibriaarefixedpointsofthebestresponse function,f. (Asdefinedpreviously,givenastrategyprofile s = (s ,s ,...,s ), 1 2 n f(s)consistsofallstrategyprofiles(s′,s′,...,s′ )suchthats′ isabestresponse 1 2 n i by player i to s .) Since the space of mixed-strategy profiles can be viewed as −i simplotope aproductofsimplexes—aso-calledsimplotope—f is a functionmappingfroma simplotopetoasetofsimplotopes. Scarf’s algorithm is a simplicial subdivisionmethod forfinding the fixed point of any function on a simplex or simplotope. It divides the simplotope into small UncorrectedmanuscriptofMultiagentSystems,publishedbyCambridgeUniversityPress Revision1.1©Shoham&Leyton-Brown,2009,2010. 4.3 ComputingNashequilibriaofn-player,general-sumgames 107 regionsandthensearchesovertheregions. Unfortunately,suchasearchisapproximate, sinceacontinuousspaceisapproximatedbya meshofsmallregions. The qualityoftheapproximationcanbecontrolledbyrefiningthemeshesintosmaller andsmallersubdivisions. Onewaytodothisisbyrestartingthealgorithmwitha homotopy finermeshafteraninitialsolutionhasbeenfound.Alternately,ahomotopymethod method canbeused. Inthisapproach,anewvariableisaddedthatrepresentsthefidelityof theapproximation,andthevariable’svalueisgraduallyadjusteduntilthealgorithm converges. Analternativeapproach,duetoGovindanandWilson,usesahomotopymethod in a different way. (This homotopy method actually turns out to be an n-player extension of the Lemke–Howson algorithm, although this correspondence is not obvious.) Instead of varying between coarse and fine approximations, the new added variable interpolates between the given game and an easy-to-solve game. That is, we define a set of games indexed by a scalar λ [0,1] such that when ∈ λ = 0,wehaveouroriginalgame,andwhenλ = 1,wehaveaverysimplegame. (One way to do this is to change the original game by adding a “bonus” λk to each player’s payoff in one outcome a = (a ,...,a ). Consider a choice of k 1 n bigenoughthatforeachplayeri, playinga isastrictlydominantstrategy. Then, i when λ = 1, a will be a (unique) Nash equilibrium, and when λ = 0, we will have our original game.) We begin with an equilibrium to the simple game and λ = 1andletboththeequilibriumtothegameandtheindexvaryinacontinuous fashion to trace the path of game-equilibrium pairs. Along this path λ may both decreaseandincrease;however,ifthepathisfollowedcorrectly,itwillnecessarily pass through a point where λ = 0. This point’s corresponding equilibrium is a sampleNashequilibriumoftheoriginalgame. Finally,itispossibletogeneralizetheSEMalgorithmtothen-playercase. Unfortunately, the feasibility program becomes nonlinear, as follows. We call this feasibilityprogramTGS-n. p (a ) u (a ,a ) = v i N,a σ (4.34) j j i i −i i i i ∀ ∈ ∈ ! a−Xi∈σ−i Y j6=i p (a ) u (a ,a ) v i N,a /σ (4.35) j j i i −i i i i ≤ ∀ ∈ ∈ ! a−Xi∈σ−i Y j6=i p (a ) 0 i N,a σ (4.36) i i i i ≥ ∀ ∈ ∈ p (a ) = 0 i N,a /σ (4.37) i i i i ∀ ∈ ∈ p (a ) = 1 i N (4.38) i i ∀ ∈ a Xi∈σi The expression p(a ) from constraints (4.26) and (4.27) is no longer a sin- −i gle variable, but must now be written as p (a ) in constraints (4.34) and j6=i j j (4.35). The resulting feasibility problem can be solved using standard numerical Q techniquesfornonlinearoptimization. Aswithtwo-playergames,inprincipleany Freeforon-screenuse;pleasedonotdistribute.Youcangetanotherfreecopy ofthisPDFororderthebookathttp://www.masfoundations.org. 108 4 ComputingSolutionConceptsofNormal-FormGames enumerationmethodwouldwork;thequestioniswhichsearchheuristicworksthe fastest. It turns out that a minor modification of the SEM heuristic described in Figure 4.6